Module 3
Module 3 Learning Objectives :
Knowing, Finding & Using Resources
• Explain why it’s important to go the extra mile to assist visitors.
• Explain how to efficiently – quality and speed – retrieve information
requested and/or needed by visitors.
• Know ─ and know how to use ─ resources available from the local
DMO/CVB an d other entities , e.g., visitor s guide, websites,
brochures, maps, etc.
• Know ─ and know how to use ─ helpful Internet sites such as Google,
Yelp, Roadfood.com, etc.
• List modes of transportation and how visitors can gain access.
• List ways to communicate with other CTAs to share information.
• Describe best practices to stay aware of current and coming events
of interest to visitors.
Does it bother you when you can’t answer a visitor’s question?
The focus of this module is on a key ingredient of the CTA program’s success – helping
YOU help the visitor – which is at the heart of creating satisfying and memorable
experiences.
This involves your developing a keen awareness and understanding of how to
effectively find and use resources. As a CTA, you are not expected to know everything
or to have everything at your fingertips . But you should know how to get information to
visitors that meets their immediate needs.
It’s up to you to learn how to give visitors
the right information,
in the right amount, at the right time.
Knowing, Finding & Using Resources
Module 3 – Reading
As a busy person, how do you keep up on everything?
Here are a few best practices used by CTAs to help them better serve visitors :
1. Stay Informed
Enhance Your Profession al Competency – Make the idea of being a capable,
effective information manager an integral part of your professional competenc y.
Constant Awareness Is Key – The main thing is to stay current on events, trends,
and changes. Try to learn something new on a regular basis, if not daily.
Develop a Curiosity – Maintain intellectual curiosit y. Information gives you the
power to exceed customer expectations .
Develop an ‘In formation Habit’ – Regularly reading local news , websites, CVB
updates , e-mail alerts, advertisements, billboards, subscribe to alerts, etc.
Be able to answer the question: “What’s happening around here?”
Keep Resources Handy – Make sure
helpful tools , such as the Official Visitors
Guide, are readily available at or near
your workstation , along with active links
you can cut/paste .
Request the Tools You Need – Ask your
employer or call t o request helpful tools
from the CVB that you need
to effectively serve the visitor. If you
repeatedly get the same question,
provide a printed card to WOW visitors.
Give Your Feedback & Ideas – Is something causing confusion for visitors, such as a
directional sign ? Do you have an idea to improve a guide or map? T ell the CVB or
your CTA program manager about it , so they can pass it along . If all CTAs practice
this, area resources will get better and more useful over time.
Stimulate Communications – Encourage your employer to help keep you and your
CVB ‘in the know ’ about what’s happening at your place of business. Do your part to
stimulate and participate in the communications flow. If possible, add your
company events to the CVB online calendar.
Does it bother you when you don’t know the answer? Here’s how .
Know the Medical and Emergency Services Near You – Keep this information on
hand for quick access , as stressed visitors often ask for the names of the closest
24-hour pharmacies, walk -in clinics, or emergency rooms.
Explore and Learn About Your Immediate Area – What are the most popular
attractions in your area? Where can families eat? What can people do for FREE?
This information will help you strike up conversations with visitors and may lead to a
return visit or a larger tip !
Know What’s Ahead and When It’s Coming – Take interest in knowing what’s going
on around our area – what new developments are underway or what’s just opened.
You’ll impress people with your knowledge!
Familiarize Yourself with History – Learn about the people, places, and events of
historical importance all around your area. Be sure to know any historical sites
located in your immediate area, near where you work – visitors will ask!
Know the Area ’s Most Popular Attractions – Make sure you’ve visited or know
something about what the core attractions most frequently asked about by visitors
to our area have to offer.
Go Where Visitors Ar e Going – Have visitors told you about something new going
on in your area, of which you weren’t aware? New things ‘pop up’ all the time and
are often driven by social media. Be sure to pass this new information on to your
teammates and try to experience it first-hand !
Get CTAs In Your Door – Go to CTANetwork.com mo
re details on next page.
Freebies & Discounts Section – TELL EMPLOYERS! Expose area businesses to
hundreds of CTAs. Offer discount s, BOGO, or free admission through the Freebies &
Discounts feature on CTANetwork.com . The service is FREE and easy to use.
CTAs can gain first-han d exposure and speak from their own experience!
A powerful connection takes place with the visitor, as well as important
word -of-mouth marketing for your business .
By participating , you may help CTA s earn points for their Annual Renewal of
Certification while providing a valuable renewal benefit. Here’s how it works:
CTANetwork.com
From the
HOME PAGE :
Under Become a CTA...
Select
Benefits to Employers
Scroll Down to
Freebies & Discounts.
Complete the Form .
It’s Quick & Easy!
Stay connected with new happenings and new attractions while meeting interesting
people who also work in the tourism industry. Make it a point to meet other CTAs and
exchange contact information at CTA and industry events and on CTANetwork.com .
That networking connection could come in handy when you’re trying to find an answer
to a question or recommend something special to a visitor. Whatever stage you are at in
your career, growing your own professional network is important – and it’s fun!
5. Use CTANetwork.com Local Micro- Site – MyCTA HOME
Log in and click MyCTA HOME to access the following local benefits – exclusively for
CTAs ! Take a moment to look at the many resources available to you , as follows:
Use your Local Micro -Site, MyCTA HOME to...
Connect Socially.
Use the Directory.
And More!
A significant amount of time and energy has resulted in the development of many
helpful resources to help YOU better serve visitors, as shown below:
Website
The Discover The Palm Beaches website, , h olds a wealth of
information.
To better serve visitors, take time to familiarize yourself with how the site is organized ;
note the sections and things to do. And use this for yourself, too!
The website provides a variety of resources, including the following:
 Explore : Best things to do in The Palm Beaches
 Stay : Accommodations
 Dine : Dining & Nightlife
 Events: Timely calendar of major area happenings
 Plan : Resources needed to plan a trip to The Palm Beaches
 Meet: Meetings and convention s information
This publication of Discover The Palm Beaches provides
maps, and a comprehensive listing of many things visitors
ask about. An exercise follows later in this reading to help
familiarize you with this important resource.
If you become familiar with the Official Visitors Guide , you’ll
be better able to answer questions quickly and correctly!
 See how it’s organized to quickly answer question s
 Hand it to visitors to take with them
 Keep a supply on hand – ALWAYS!
Access it online at:
The Insider’s guide reaches discerning travelers
and locals alike, showcasing brands and exclusive
experiences.
The guide is available in print only . It is widely
distributed and may be found at 430+ d istribution
points: 352 locations throughout Palm Beach,
Broward, and Dade Counties ; eight Florida
Turnpike locations ; 59 locations within Orlando ;
and 12 local Visitor Information Centers.
Visitor Information Centers
In addition to the Discover T he Palm Beaches
Visitor Information Center, there are affiliated
Visitor Information Centers throughout Palm
Beach County. Encourage visitors to stop by one of
our locations for planning assistance, free maps, visitor guides, and a friendly face.
Visit -
services for more details.
Loggerhead Marinelife Center
14200 U.S. Highway 1, Juno Beach , marinelife.org
Visit Palm Beach Adventure Center
138 South Flagler Drive, West Palm Beach, vis
itpalmbeach.com
Cultural Council for Palm Beach County
601 Lake Ave., Lake Worth Beach ,
palmbeachculture.com
Delray Beach Chamber of Commerce
140 N
.E. 1st St., Delray Beach, delraybeach.com
Delray Beach Visitor Information Center
2 S. Ocean Blvd., Delray Beach , visitdelraybeachfl.com
The Schmidt Boca Raton History Museum
71 N. Federal Highway, Boca Raton , bocahistory.org
6000 N Flagler Dr, West Palm Beach , manateelagoon.com
City of Boynton Beach Visitor Information Center
100 E. Ocean Ave., Boynton Beach , boynton-beach.org
City of Lake Worth Beach Visitor Information Center
414 Lake Ave., City Hall Annex, L ake Worth Beach, lakeworthbeachfl.gov
Tourist Development Council Office
2195 Southern Blvd., West Palm Beach ,
thepalmbeaches.com
Compass Community Center
201 N. Dixie Hwy., Lake Worth Beach ,
compassglcc.com
Social Media
Discover The Palm Beaches post s current information on the destination on their
social media pages:
Facebook –
Instagram –
Threads –
TikTok –
X –
YouTube –
LinkedIn –
Pinteres t –
The P alm Beach es TV
The Palm Beaches TV…
Watch It, Live It, Share It!
The Palm Beaches TV is Palm Beach County, Florida’s official tourism
television channel . The streaming platform launched in 2017 to inspire travel,
attract new visitors, and extend the length of stays. The channel currently broadcasts more than 114 hours of original, family -friendly, tourism -branded
programming. PBTV’s ever -expanding portfolio covers the County’s multicultural
and historical diversity, inclusive tourism offerings and attractions, and an
abundance of unique experiences.
Content is presented in a high -quality video format created by regional production
companies and is designed to entice viewers to enjoy and explore the area in ways
they may never have before. PBTV is accessible to a worldwide audience via Roku,
streaming 24/7 on demand at ThePalmBeaches.TV and on the FreeTV app – a
subscription -free streaming platform available across digital devices , including
smartphones, tablets, desktop, and connected TVs.
To enhance guest and visitor experiences , The Palm Beaches TV Channel is currently
broadcasting in more than 5,000 hotel rooms throughout Palm Beach County, as
well as a variety of public places including the Palm Beach International Airport.
Discover It: The Palm Beaches TV ,
The Palm Beaches welcome visitors of all abilities to relish our abundant sunshine,
enjoy 47 miles of beautiful waters and soft sands, discover the rich local arts
and culture scene, and delight in family -friendly attractions.
Discover The Palm Beaches – Accessibility Guide
The website includes an accessibility guide that lists accessible information on :
• Attractions & Tours
• Museums
• Sports
• Performing Art s
• Outdoor Activities & Wheelchair Access
o Nature Trails
o Water Activities
o Bicycling Spots
o Accessible Beaches
o Autism -friendly Natural Areas
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
Discover The Palm Beaches
AUTISM: Discover The Palm Beaches
earned the Certified Autism Center ™
designation, granted by IBCCES to
organizations having successfully completed extensive autism- specific
training and certification from leading experts, to ensure all families with
autism or other sensory -sensitivities are
understood and properly accommodated. This important milestone marks the first
step for The Palm Beaches in its journey to
become a Certified Autism Destination ™,
further establishing its commitment to
inclusivity and accessibility.
The Arc of Palm Beach County strives to create a community where every person
feels welcome, connected, and accepted. The organization works with people
with disabilities —both kids and adults —providing remarkable services, continuing
education, rights advocacy, loving care, and family support. They strive to assist all
of their clients to become independent and active members of their family and
community. Learn more:
Els for Autism Foundation
Els for Autism Foundation provides programs and services for those impacted by
autism spectrum disorder around the globe. The Els Center of Excellence® campus is
the epicenter from where therapeutic and employment services, independent living
skills, and recreation programs are delivered to individuals and families impacted by
autism spectrum disorder. Learn more:
Use the Internet to find virtually anything. This list shows popular trip/travel sites.
 Check them out – see how they function.
 Bookmark them for easy use.
 Ask your fellow CTAs what they use!
Local Websites
Discover The Palm Beaches –
Palm Beach County Tourist Development Council – discover. -Information.aspx
Business Development Board of Palm Beach County – The county’s official
economic development organization.
Palm Beach County Film & Television Commission –
Cultural Council for Palm Beach County –
Palm Beach County Sports Commission 
Internet Websites
SEARCH ENGINES :
– Internet search engine to help you find almost anything you’re
looking for; type in key words and narrow down the information you are seeking
– Internet search engine from Microsoft; new features allow you to save
a custom search for a specific topic area.
REVIEW SITES:
– Reviews on hotels, dining, and attractions from real travelers
– User reviews of local restaurants, shopping, events, hotels and more
– Restaurant reviews and online reservation service
– Local restaurant information
– Memorable local eateries on highways and back roads of the U.S.
– User reviews of local restaurants, shopping, events, hotels and more
– Reviews on hotels, dining, and attractions from real travelers
PET-FRIENDLY :
– Pet-friendly lodging, attractions, dog parks, hiking trails and
beaches around the country
TICKETS :
– Fans supply the tickets and set the price for hard- to-get sporting
events and concert tickets
– Tickets to concerts and events
TRANSPORTATION / DIRECTIONS:
– Bus and train travel booking engine
– Download the app or access it online; driving, walking
distances, and public transportation, where applicable
WI-FI:
– Locations with free wireless internet access for their
customers, guests, and/or the public
Make sure you’re constantly aware of and use the resources available to you.
Below are some suggestions. Can you think of others?
• Guides, Maps, etc. – In addition to the resources offered by Discover The
Palm Beaches, maps and other resources may be available that are free and of
great value to visitors, such as shopping guides, trail guides, and more.
• Your Company’s Materials – Concierge notebooks, printed directions, and
other resources may be available from your employer. Many times, these
resources are extremely useful because they’ve evolved over a long history of
answering the most frequent – or most challenging – visitor inquiries.
• Local News – Local news or w eekly inserts/alerts, usually published every
Thursday or Friday, provide a good overview of what’s going on .
• TV & Radio – Make it a point to “tune in” and listen attentively when you
hear something that may be of interest to visitors.
•
Free Wi -Fi – Know where visitors can get free Wi-Fi, especially near you.
Check for m ore information.
Visitors don’t just visit our points of interest. They also travel around the area and will
ask YOU about things to see and do.
Shown below are area Chambers of Commerce, who are working with their local
attractions and businesses to promote tourism in their areas and to welcome those who
visit. A call to their offices or directing visitors to visit them can be of great help.
A few items of note:
Local Chambers provide helpful information from
friendly, knowledgeable local staff.
1. Hours May Vary and some offices
may be closed on weekends.
If so, you can direct them to their
website for local information,
where applicable.

The state of Florida offers four Official Florida Welcome Centers along the major
thoroughfares. Trained travel counselors are available to assist visitors in finding
numerous destinations in Florida. Tourism brochures, maps, and hotel discount coupons
are available to the public at no charge. T he closest to our area is located on I -95 north
of Yulee .
A visitor asks you a question about something in Discover The Palm Beaches
Official Visitors Guide.
Can you go right to the section?
Or will you stumble.
Even in today’s Internet environment, this is a valuable resource when serving visitors.
The Official Visitors Guide is one of the most important resources for CTAs . Here are
some f eatures of this publication:
• Published on an annual basis
• Available in Print or Digital formats
• Includes fresh content in every
issue with emphasis on our area’s
“uniqueness”
• Features specific sections that
serve as a valuable reference tool
EXERCISE INSTRUCTIONS
Visitors ask questions about EVERYTHING.
A little time spent now will save you time later.
By learning to use th is resource, you will be able to quickly serve visitors and help them
have a memorable experience.
IMPORTANT :
1. Refer to a print or online copy.
In preparation for your upcoming class, gain access to a copy of the Official
Visitors Guide . If you need assistance, please contact Discover The Palm Beaches
immediately. To access it online, go to: publications. ThePalmBeaches.com
2. Don’t rush through this! This is one of the most important resources available
to you. Spend a few minutes on the steps below to become at ease in looking up
answers to visitors’ questions .
3. Become proficient and impress visitors when you know or can quickly find
the answer!
TIP: Complete each step before moving on to the next . It’ll save time and you’ll learn the
best way to use this tool to help visitors.
STEP 1: Quick Overview
First, q uickly flip through the document :
1. Note How It’s Organized by Section to be able to find the right page.
2. Locate the Map Section for quick access .
3. Read New Issues When They Are Published as the sections and contents
may change; study the new information to broaden your knowledge.
Next, find the map attached in the back of the guide .
GPS can’t always help you see the big picture . Being able to quickly locate points of
interest on a larger map is vital to your success .
General Map Instructions – Look at the map, then…
1. Determine the Overall Geographic Area to know what’s included on the
map ; look for North to get your bearings.
2. Familiarize Yourself with How the Map is Organized to quickly see what’s
included, such as Attractions, Points of Interest, or Accomm odations.
3. Locate Where You Work to see where everything is in relation . Familiarize
yourself with what’s nearby that visitors can see or do. They’ll thank you for
knowing!
4. Note the Major Streets and Highways that criss cross the map to help
visitors more quickly move through our area.
5. Look at How the Streets Are Laid Out to easily find locations .
6. Locate Things to Do and What Visitors Can Explore. Note the cross
streets and geographic boundaries of restaurant or entertainment areas. Get
familiar with them. Today’s visitors love to explore these special areas!
BEST PRACTICE :
Take time to point out things on th e map.
They’ll thank you for it!
STEP 3: Sections
Next, take a deeper dive into the sections.
Sections help organize the content in every issue.
1. Look at the Names of the Sections to get a feel of what they are called and
where they are located , you’ll use these on the next part of this exercise.
2. Sections May Vary in Every Issue to keep it fresh. With each new issue, flip
through it to see if sections have changed or new ones have been added. Be
careful to note if they are in the same place, or have moved, due to ad
placement or design reasons.
3. Find the Sections You Use Most to be able to quickly turn to them.
4. Glance Through the Advertisements to see if they contain new
information to help visitors decide how they want to spend their time.
5. Look for F REE Things They Can Do , as they may be on a tight budget.
STEP 4: Finding Answers to Questions
Visitors will ask many different questions. Most will ask three things:
 Food Options – where to eat or d ine
 Directions – where something is located
 Transportation – options for getting there
Now that you’ve familiarized yourself with this valuable resource, let’s see how
quickly you can answer common visitor questions!
To Answer V isitor Questions
INSTRUCTIONS :
Pretend you have a visitor in front of you or on the phone and they are asking the
following questions . Using the Official Visitors Guide , complete the table:
indicate the s ection where each answer may be found; and write short
answers to the questions in the Tourist Tips column.
Don’t rush through this exercise. It’s important for you to take what you’ve learned
and see if you can put it into practice – quickly and effectively!
VISITOR
QUESTIONS SECTION TOURIST TIPS
(SOMETHING UNIQUE ABOUT WHAT THEY ’RE
ASKING )
1. Where can we take
a tour?
2. Anything special
happening tonight or
this week?
3. How can I get
around? What are my
transportation
options?
4. Where can we stay
next time?
5. Which beach
should we go to?
.
6. Where can we find
some local cuisine ?
QUESTIONS SECTION TOURIST TIPS
7. Which spas would
you recommend?
8. Where do we go to
see manatees and
other sea life?
9. Where can I see a
theater production or
stage show?
10. W hy are The Palm
Beaches called
America’s First Resort
Destination?
11. Where can we
learn about the
history of the area?
12. Do you have
an art museum or
public art?
13. Where can we
shop in boutique
stores?
14. Do you have any
botanical gardens?
15. What can we do with
the kids?
16. What kind of outdoor
activities can we enjoy
here?
17. What kind of
sporting events can we
go to?
18. Which golf course
should we play?
19. What events are
happening today in
The Palm Beaches ?
What would you first say after someone asked you the following question:
“We have an entire day, what could we do?”
You’re finished with
this exercise!
Now you can use these
newfound skills to create
memorable experiences
for visitors.
