
The people that came before us helped build our area to what it is today. Through this section, we chronicle their influence.
Some Famous Natives & Residents of The Palm Beaches
• John F. Kennedy – U.S. President
• Donald J. Trump – U.S. President
• Sylvester Stallone – Actor
• Burt Reynolds – Actor
• Kevin James – Actor
• Drew Garrett – Actor
• Allen Covert – Actor
• Jimmy Buffet – Singer
• Ariana Grande – Singer
• Rod Stewart – Singer
• John Lennon – Singer
• Celine Dion – Singer
• Kid Rock – Singer
• Alan Jackson – Singer
• Oliva Newton -John – Actor and Singer
• Perry Como – Actor and Singer
• Nick Saban – Former Football Coach, Miami Dolphins and University of Alabama
• John “Chummer” McCranels – U.S. Amateur Surfing Champion
• Dara Torres – Olympic Gold Medal- Winning Swimmer
• Otis Anderson – Professional Football Player
• Chad Johnson – Professional Football Player
• Joe Namath – Professional Football Player
• Tiger Woods – Professional Golfer
• Brooks Koepka – Professional Golfer
• Greg Norman – Professional Golfer
• Ricki Fowler – Professional Golfer
• Johnny Bench – Professional Baseball Player
• Steffi Graf – Professional Tennis Player
• Michael Jordan – Professional Basketball Player
• Bobby Orr – Professional Hockey Player
• Tico Torres – Drummer in the Band Bon Jovi
Section 3 – Our Influential Citizens
• Brent Musberger – Sports Broadcaster
• Carrot To p – Comedian
• Ogden Mills “Dinny” Phipps – Thoroughbred Owner and Breeder
• James Patterson – Author
the-jupiter -area/70048007007/ , -m essi-
coming- celebs -whove -lived -in-boca -raton -delray -beach/70437295007/ , -p alm-
beach -3128.php
Our Influential Citizens
Edward Riley “ E.R.” Bradley
• Before coming to Palm Beach, E. R. Bradley is said
to have been a cowboy, a gold prospector, and an
acquaintance of Wyatt Earp and Billy the Kid .
• He opened his Beach Club, an illegal gambling hall, in 1898 on Royal Poinciana Way in Palm Beach.
The club attracted tycoons from around the U.S.
who spent and bet lavishly. The club became the
social center for the elite citizens and visitors to
Palm Beach.
• A physician suggested he get more outdoor activity, so he decided to give horse racing a try.
It’s unclear whether this outdoor activity actually
prolonged his life, but he was very successful as a horse owner. By 1921, he had his first Kentucky Derby winner in Behave Yourself .
Bradley won the Kentucky Derby four times, the Preakness Stakes three times,
and the Belmont Stakes twice.
• Despite his gambling reputation, he was also known as a philanthropist and is
said to have staged an annual race at his Idle Hour Stock Farm to benefit orphans , in addition to donating to other causes.
• He eventually donated the Beach Club to the Town of Palm Beach, with the caveat that it be demolished and turned into a park. Today, Bradley Park is
located just east of the Lake Trail on the north side of Royal Poinciana Way. Bradley was also instrumental in donating the West Palm Beach County Club to the City of West Palm Beach to be used as a municipal course.
Edward Riley “E.R.” Bradley
Historical Society Palm Beach County
• Elisha Newton “Cap” Dimick is known for
building Palm Beach’s first hotel and being
the city’s first mayor . He was called “Cap”
because he liked to wear hats .
• Dimick’s family came to farm Palm Beach in
1876, growing sweet potatoes, pumpkins, and pineapples.
• In 1880, Dimick added eight rooms to his home and opened the area’s first hotel called the Coc oanut Grove House .
• In 1890, Dimick served as a state
representative and in 1896, he served as a
state senator. He was also involved in starting
the region’s first bank , Dade County State Bank , in 1893.
• In 1908, Dimick formed the Palm Beach Improvement Company with his nephew
Harvey G. Geer, and partners George W. Jonas and Otto Kubin. They purchased
160 acres of swamp land that stretched from the ocean to the lake and created
the Royal Park Addition. The tract extended from north of today’s Royal Palm
Way to just south of today’s Worth Avenue. They filled the marshes with sand hauled from a nearby oceanside ridge on tracked dump carts they’d built. They laid 4.5 miles of streets with rock they blasted fro m a nearby quarry. The
installation of water lines, sewers, electrical systems, and telephone lines
followed, and Royal Palm Way, the project’s grand entrance, took shape.
17 Initial
sales were slow.
• In 1911, Dimick and his wife, Louise Semple Clarke, gathered 31 male property
owners in the area and signed the charter incorporating the town of Palm Beach. Cap became the town’s first mayor.
• That same year, his development company built the first Royal Park Bridge (See
Appendix 1 – Our Landmarks, Page 239 ) to provide easy access to the Royal Park
Addition.
• In 1912, Dimick hired Lewis Henry Green, a wealthy real estate agent from California, to promote the Royal Park Addition. Green utilized automobiles to
give tours of the property and promoted it as “the millionaire’s playground.”
With the added promotion and improvements to the neighborhood, including streetlamps and exotic landscaping , the development sold out in 1917. Discover
It: Royal Palm Way in Palm Beach is home to the Elisha “Cap” Di mick Statue –
401-435 Royal Palm Way, Palm Beach, FL, 33480
• Dimick’s grandson, Claude D imick Reese, also served as Palm Beach mayor for 18
years and as a council member for 38 years.
Elisha Newton “Cap” Dimick
and Family
Historical Society Palm Beach County
• Harry DuBois was a pioneer of Palm Beach County. He grew up in New Jersey but
spent summers in Florida, from the age of 16 on. He met his wife, Susan Sanders,
in Jupiter, where he had been serving as a lifeguard. He built today’s DuBois
Pioneer Home in 1891 for Susan,
who said she wanted to live on a hill. The couple had four children: John, Henry,
Anna, and Neil. When they were of age, the children took a boat to school .
• The family were farmers and fishermen . In 1910, DuBois used wood from the old
lifeguard station nearby to construct more than 600 beehives, and he became very successful at it, making 90,000 pounds of honey in one year at his peak.
Alfonso Fanjul and J. Pepe Fanjul
• The Fanjul family founded Florida Crystals Corporation in 1960. The sugarcane
farming and milling company is located in West Palm Beach. The company owns
and operates two sugar mills, a sugar refinery, a rice mill, a packaging and distribution center, and the largest biomass renewable power plant in North
America.
• They were instrumental, along with other Everglades farmers , in forming the
influential Florida Sugar Cane League, as well as joint marketing cooperatives for
the sale of raw sugar and molasses . In 1998, the Fanjul brothers partnered with
the Sugar Cane Growers Cooperative to purchase ASR Group, a sugar refinery in Yonkers, New York . Today that company is the largest sugar cane refiner and
marketer in the world.
• In addition, Florida Crystals also pioneered the production of rice and organic sugar cane in South Florida. It is the only producer of organic cane sugar products
that are grown, harvested, and milled in the U.S.
Susan & Harry
DuBois
/picture-
gallery/news/2023/11/27/
florida -history -dubois -
pioneer -home- in-jupiter -
is-turning -
125/71703637007/
education services for the residents of Pahokee and the surrounding area.
Henry Morrison Flagler
• Henry Flagler is known as the founder of tourism
in The Palm Beaches. As the developer of the
Florida East Coast Railway, Flagler built the rail line and luxury hotels up and down the east
coast of Florida, bringing many tourists and new residents to the area.
• Flagler was born in New York. His first job was working in a grain business in Ohio for his mother’s
relatives, where he met his first wife, Mary
Harkness. They were married in 1853.
• In 1867, Flagler became a partner in Rockefeller,
Andres & Flagler , an oil company that became
Standard Oil in 1870. He worked as the secretary/
treasurer of the company.
• When he first visited Florida in 1878, he had already become quite wealthy from his work with Standard Oil Company with partner John D. Rockefeller, Sr. Impressed by Florida’s temperate winter climate, Flagler decided to remove himself from the day -to-day operations of Standard Oil to focus on
developing railroads and resorts in Florida.
• His first wife died in 1881, and he remarried to Ida Alice Shourds in New York in 1883.
• Flagler came to Florida in 1885 to develop the area around St. Augustine and
build the Hotel Ponce de Leon. During this process, he realized that the state
Alfonso and
J. Pepe Fanjul
o-fanjul -and-j- pepe- fanjul/
Henry Flagler
Historical Society Palm Beach County
converting them all to run on standard -gauge tracks. Initially purchasing the
Jacksonville, St. Augustine, and Halifax Railroad that served the northeastern
portion of the state, Flagler developed hotels along the railroad lines to provide
tourists a place to stay who rode the train. He continued to purchase railroads
running both north and south of St. Augustine to incorporate into what eventually became the Florida East Coast Railway. As he extended the
railroads south, he purchased land to develop hotels along the railroad lines.
• As previously mentioned, his first hotel in Palm Beach County was the Hotel
Royal Poinciana, built in 1894, followed by The Breakers (See Section 1 – Our
Area’s Early History, Page 45 and Appendix 1 – Our Landmarks, Page 239).
• In 1895, his wife Ida was institutionalized and declared legally insane. In 1901, he divorced Ida and married Mary Lily Kenan.
• He also built Whitehall for his wife,
Mary.
Zora Neale Hurston
• Zora Neale Hurston is known for her
anthropology work and for her novels, short stories, and plays that often -depicted African
American life in the South.
• She was born in Notasulga, Alabama, but her family moved to Eatonville, Florida when she
was still young. Her father became one of the
town’s first mayors.
• She attended Howard University where she founded the school’s newspaper , The Hilltop .
• In 1925, she received a scholarship to Barnard College in New York City, where she graduated
three years later with a degree in anthropology .
While there, she became friends with other well-
known writers, like Langston Hughes and Countee Cullen, and joined the black cultural
renaissance taking place in Harlem . In the 1930s, she collaborated with Hughes
to write a play entitled Mule Bone , a comedy about the African American life.
• One of her most popular works was a fictional story entitled Their Eyes Were Watching God , which followed the life of Janie Crawford and partially took place
in The Glades . In the book, Janie’s second husband owned a store in The Glades
and depicts a devastating hurricane, which historically references the Lake Okeechobee hurricane of 1928 . It was unusual at the time to focus on the Zora Neale Hurston
-Neale- Hurston
studying Black culture .
• Hurston was not only an author. She also wanted to educate others about the
arts. In 1934, she established a school of dramatic arts at Bethune-Cookman
College in Daytona Beach. She also worked as a drama teacher at North Carolina
College for Negroes at Durham.
• Although she received some acclaim for her works, Hurston was often underpaid and remained in poverty. At her death, she was living at the St. Lucie County Welfare Home. Although her works were not well -known during her life, they
continue to inspire writers today and she is considered one of the best writers
of the 20
th century.
Joseph Jefferson
• In addition to being a close friend with Henry Flagler, Joseph Jefferson was a world -renowned
theater actor of the time.
• He began visiting Palm Beach in the 1890s, staying at the Royal Poinciana. In the late 1890s,
he built the first electric plant and an ice plant
for West Palm Beach.
• The actor also owned six houses, the Jefferson
Hotel on Clematis Street, a two -story brick
building that housed six stores, and a store across that street that housed the Anthony
Brothers retailers.
• Jefferson was also known for his benevolence and often held performances to fundraise for many worthy causes .
H. Irwin Levy
• In 1952, H. Irwin Levy and his wife moved to The Palm Beaches, where he worked as a lawyer, handling major business and real estate restructurings , taking
several companies public.
• He also founded his busines s Cenville Communities, w hich developed Century
Village in West Palm Beach and two other locations, plus Wynmoor Village .
Cenville Communities was the largest builder of condominiums in the U.S. at one point and built 37,000 homes across South Florida.
• He was very active in Jewry and helped build The Palm Beaches into a thriving Jewish community . He was a founding leader of the Jewish Federation of Palm Joseph Jefferson
Historical Society Palm Beach County
School, Joseph L. Morse Geriatric Center, the Kravis Center for the Performing Arts, and the Palm Beach Fellowship of Christians and Jews. He was also the past
president of Temple Beth El in West Palm Beach.
• Levy was also an ardent supporter of Israel, securing $1.6 billion in U.S. grants to
The United Israel Appeal for The Jewish Agency for Israel to rescue nearly one
million Jews from the former Soviet Union and Ethiopia .
• Among other awards, he was named the Palm Beach Jewish Times Man of the Century.
John Donald MacArthur
• John MacArthur is known for developing much of The Palm Beach es. Born in
Pennsylvania, his family moved frequently, as his father was a Baptist preacher
and missionary. At 16, he quit school and moved to Chicago where he worked
with an older brother in the insurance industry. While working at his brother’s
insurance company, he met and married Catherine Hyland, and within one year,
he had sold more than $1 million in insurance.
• In 1928, he purchased Marquette Life Insurance . In 1938, he bought Bankers Life
and Casualty Company, which was very successful due to his use of mass
marketing through door -to-door salesmen . This kept costs lower and made
insurance coverage affordable to the common consumer. By 1956, Bankers Life was the largest health and life insurance company in the U.S. Catherine’s role in the business was to work behind the scenes, tracking details and accounts.
• In 1958, the couple moved to Florida, where they purchased more than 100,000
acres of land across the state . They purchased the Colonnades Hotel on the
south end of Singer Island and moved into one of the rooms. MacArthur used a table in the Colonnades Coffee Shop as his office, and it is said he was often
H. Irvin Levy
Historical Society Palm Beach County
billionaire.”18 He developed much of the city of Palm Beach Gardens.
• The MacArthurs were also philanthropists ,
donating to the North Palm Beach YMCA and Palm
Beach Atlantic University. They also allowed
charities to use the ballroom at the Colonnades for free for fundraisers. The couple also created the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation to
allow their money to go toward deserving
charities. Grants from the foundation total more
than $7 billion since its inception, funding more
than 10,000 organizations and projects, including
the John D. MacArthur Beach State Park and
Amnesty International.
Sidney Maddock
• In the early 1900s, Sidney Maddock started the Palm
Beach Pinery , a large plantation that shipped pineapples from Palm Beach to
London. During this time, Maddock also built the Olympic and Dixie movie theaters and was part of several Clematis Street businesses in West Palm Beach.
• His wife, Lucie, was known as a suffragette and was involved in several women’s
rights movements. In 1920, t he women’s suffrage movement finally led to
women’s right to vote .
• In 1902, he built the Palm Beach Hotel , a 300 -room luxury hotel that was known
for its glamorous Ritz Gardens, which offered tea and drinks. A full orchestra played at the hotel each night for dance parties. Famous guests included
President Theodore Roosevelt and evangelist Ira Sankey.
• Unfortunately, in 1925, the hotel burned down, due to sparks from the adjacent
fire at The Breakers . Guests at the hotel had been outside watching The Breakers
fire and were barely able to get back to rescue their things before the Palm Beach Hotel burned to the ground.
• After the fire, Sidney and his wife left Palm Beach and moved to Brooklyn, New York. Today, the Palm Beach Biltmore Condominiums are on this site.
John D. MacArthur
/000044149/
• After serving as a country house architect on
Long Island, NY, Addison Mizner moved to Palm
Beach. In 1917, he met Paris Singer ,
the sewing machine heir and developer of Palm Springs. Singer was impressed with Mizner’s work and asked him to design his Everglades
Club .
• Mizner’s design for the Everglades Club introduced the Mediterranean style of
architecture to the area . The success of the
project led to other commissions from Palm
Beach high society . He became so popular that
he had to open his own workshops to create the
tiles, wrought iron fixtures, and cast -stone trim
that the Mediterranean style required. He later
also produced furniture for the homes and buildings he designed.
• In 1924, the City of Boca Raton was incorporated and appointed Mizner as the
city planner.
• In early 1925, Mizner formed the Mizner Development Corporation and
purchased 1,600 acres that contained approximately two miles of oceanfront. His plan was to build the Castillo del Rey , a huge oceanfront hotel that would include
golf courses, polo fields, elegant shopping streets, and luxurious mansions for
the wealthy of the world. His well -known investors included T. Coleman
du Pont, Elizabeth Arden, William K. and Harold Vanderbilt, Irving Berlin, and Paris Singer. Even before the resort was built, it was widely promoted, making it
Boca Raton’s hottest property . His company took in $2 million on the first day of
sales, along with an additional $2 million when he opened up a second set of lots.
• Mizner had pitched the hotel to Ritz-Carlton , which decided to take over the
design and building of the project themselves. This meant the building of the
hotel would be delayed. Mizner moved forward with his other plans to build
homes, streets, and administrative buildings for the development . He designed
the Camino Real, a 160-foot-wide boulevard, as the focal point for his new city.
He did begin building the boulevard but never actually completed it.
• He also decided to build a smaller hotel on his own. He built The Cloister Inn on
Lake Boca Raton, making most of the furnishings to save money and even using
his own furniture in some areas. The hotel proved his abilities as an architect and
designer. This hotel became The Boca Raton of today.
• By the fall of 1925, the land boom was beginning to slow down, and his investors began to back out. The additional burden of the hurricane, in September 1926, Addison Mizner
Historical Society Palm Beach County
was bankrupt. His former investor Clarence H. Geist purchased the assets of the company for $71,500, assuming approximately $7 million in debt.
• Mizner continued taking on architectural projects in the area, but he never became wealthy.
George Morikami
• Sukeji “George” Morikami was 19 years old when he emigrated to the Yamato
community from Miyazu, Japan in 1906 .
He was originally an indentured laborer, working to pay off his passage to America.
• He settled into the community of Yamato ,
a Japanese colony located between Boca Raton and Delray Beach established in the early 20
th century. Yamato is an old name
for Japan, which means “large, beautiful
land.”
• By 1906, Yamato’s population was up to approximately 50, with its own post office and rail station. The residents were mainly bachelor fruit farmers.
• Many residents began to leave in the late 1930s, due to a fruit blight and competition from less expensive fruit being imported from Cuba.
• During World War II, Boca Raton Army Air Field was built. As more land
was needed to house the soldiers, most of the remaining residents in adjacent Yamato Colony were forced to give up the land. George Morikami continued
living the in village even after everyone left.
• After World War II, Morikami slowly built his fortune and amassed 200 acres of
land in Yamato . He could have become a rich man by selling the land but,
instead, he donated it to Palm Beach County to create a park. Discover It: Today,
that land is home to exhibits featuring the Japanese culture of the Yamato Colony ,
as part of the Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens – morikami.org
George Morikami
Historical Society Palm Beach County
• James Patterson , an American author, is best known
for his fictional book series about characters, Alex
Cross and Jane Effing Smith, as well as the Women’s
Murder Club, and Maximum Ride. He has also penned non-fiction works about the Kennedys, John Lennon, and Princess Diana , in addition to military
heroes, police officers, and emergency room nurses. He has also co-authored books with Bill Clinton and
Dolly Parton and has written an autobiography.
• Patterson and his wife have lived in Palm Beach since 1998.
• Patterson is a philanthropist, donating more than one million books to students, totaling $7.25
million to school and classroom libraries through out the U.S. , and
$2.1 million to independent bookstores and
employees . Patterson also supports after -school
reading programs at four Palm Beach County middle
schools where up to 1,000 books have been donated.
• The Patterson Family Foundation has given more than $7 million in scholarships
to students at 24 different colleges, including Florida Atlantic University and the
University of Florida. Additionally, the Pattersons support the Alexander W.
Dreyfoos School of the Arts in West Palm Beach, sponsoring events and learning programs.
John “Jay” Shaffer Phipps
• Jay Phipps was a businessman and well -known philanthropist in Palm Beach.
Before moving to Palm Beach from Pittsburgh, he was the former director of U.S.
Steel , which his father owned in partnership with Andrew Carnegie. He also
served as director of the Guarantee Trust Company, W.R. Grace and Company,
and the International Paper Company.
• Prompted by the 1920’s , Phipps purchased old pineapple fields and other property to develop lots for private homes that would become the El Cid
Neighborhood.
• In addition to developing the El Cid Neighborhood, today’s El Cid Historic District,
he also built polo fields in Florida,
Virginia, and New York. He also owned several thoroughbred racehorses . James Patterson
th.
6bf4fa1054527ab0e91a?rik=BOtU4
4ZqyyB6lA&riu=http%3a%2f%2fcdn
2.mhpbooks.com%2f2016%2f03%2
f5268143326_d665277df9_o.jpg&e
and the Seminole Club.
• Phipps Ocean Park sits on land that was once the private beach of the Phipps
family . In the 1920s, the park was opened to the public and became a popular
destination for both locals and tourists.
Lilly Pulitzer
• Lilly Pulitzer was a designer, known worldwide for her colorful dresses and
resort wear. She was born Lillian Lee McKim in Roslyn, New York, the great-
granddaughter of Standard Oil partner, Jabez A. Bostwick.
• She married Peter Pulitzer of the Pulitzer Prize family. They eloped in Baltimore
and moved to Palm Beach when she was 21, where she quickly became a popular
Palm Beach socialite.
• By 1958, however, she was a new mom and felt like she was going to have a
nervous breakdown . A doctor suggested she needed a sense of purpose, so she
opened a juice stand off Worth Avenue using the oranges from her husband’s
orchard. She quickly discovered that the orange juice stained her clothes, so she
worked with a dressmaker to create a colorful easy dress that would hide the splashes.
• She discovered she loved designing clothing and began to look for more vibrant
prints from which to make her dresses. They became popular with the famous around Palm Beach.
• Lilly’s school friend, First Lady Jackie Kennedy , came to visit in 1962. Shortly
after, the First Lady appeared on the cover of Life Magazine in one of Pulitzer’s
designs . As Kennedy was considered to be one of the most stylish women in the
world , women around the country decided they wanted a Lilly Pulitzer dress. This
marked the beginning of her American Resort Wear line, and she ditched the lemonade stand.
• By 1963, Life was publishing a story on her line of dresses that were available in
boutiques nationwide. Lilly Pulitzer
176765/remembering -lilly-
pulitzer -5-queen -prep/
line of menswear. By 1984, the company had spread itself too thin, and it filed for bankruptcy . It was revived in the 1990s by Sugartown Worldwide Industries
who sold it to Oxford Industries in 2010. The company is now headquartered in
King of Prussia, Pennsylvania.
Burt Reynolds
• Burt Reynolds was a high school and college football player and a famous actor. He was born in Lansing, Michigan, but was raised in Palm Beach
County , attending Palm Beach High School and
Florida State University.
• After a football injury ended his playing of the game, he attended Palm Beach Junior College and performed in several theatre productions ,
including the play, Outward Bound, for which he
won a Florida State Drama Award .
• This award helped him secure a scholarship to work in Hyde Park Playhouse, a summer theatre in
New York City . Here, he met actress Joanne Woodward , who helped him find an
agent.
• From 1959 to 1961, he played the character Ben Fraser on an NBC TV show called Riverboat. Throughout the 1960s, he played characters on several different
television shows including, The Everglades, Gunsmoke, Perry Mason, and The
Twilight Zone.
• In the 1970s, he moved back to the Jupiter area , working on projects in
Hollywood , California, as necessary.
• In 1973, he dabbled in singing , making an album called Ask Me What I Am.
He also sang a duet with Dolly Parton for the movie, The Best Little Whorehouse
in Texas.
• The role he is most famous for came in 1997 , when he played Bandit in the movie
Smokey and the Bandi t, with Sally Field, Jackie Gleason, and Jerry Reed. He
repeated the role in 1980 in Smokey and the Bandit II . In 1997, he also turned
down the role of Han Solo in Star Wars .
• From 1989 to 1990, he starred as B.L. Stryker in a series of the same name, which
was filmed on location in Jupiter and throughout Palm Beach County.
• In 1990, h e earned an Emmy Award for his role of Wood Newton in the TV
series Evening Shade .
• From this time until his death, he continued to act, direct, and produce.
Burt Reynolds
Historical Society Palm Beach County
• Paris Singer was a famous developer of Palm Beach
and the son of Isaac Singer, the Singer sewing
machine mogul. He was named after the city of
Paris, in which he was born.
• In 1918, Singer began buying property on both sides
of Lake Worth. He visited his Palm Beach properties
often and decided to offer Addison Mizner the job of
designing his elegant Everglades Club . The design
and the club were a huge success.
• As previously mentioned, Singer often took his
friends to picnic on the island, just north of Palm
Beach, which they began to call Singer’s Island . The
name stuck.
• In 1925, Singer again worked with Mizner on a plan to build two luxurious hotels
on Singer Island . The hotel on the south end of the island was to be the Paris
Singer Hotel, and the one on the north end would be the Blue Heron , with a 36 -
hole golf course. Singer was very eager to get started and it is said that he began
building the Blue Heron before Mizner was even done with the plans.
• The Florida land boom began to slow and after the hotel’s service wing was completed, building stopped. Singer’s plan had been to finance the hotel from
the sale of lots throughout the island; however, the lots were not selling as well
as anticipated.
• The 1928 hurricane and the 1929 stock market crash put an end to the structure, which would stand for 14 years before it was razed in 1940 .
• Today, the Singer Oceanfront Resort is located on this land.
• Singer’s financial troubles continued after construction stopped on the Blue
Heron. The Everglades Club went into receivership because Singer was unable to pay the loans he’d taken out, using the club as collateral.
• In 1928, Singer left Palm Beach and ultimately moved to his Moorish house in Saint -Jean -Cap-Ferrat, France with his wife, Joan Balsh.
Solomon D. Spady
• Solomon Spady was an African American teacher, scientist, and administrator .
Born in Cape Charles, Virginia, Spady attended Hampton Normal and Agricultural
Institute and taught there his first year after
graduating in 1912.
• Spady soon got involved in the New Farmers of America, the largest Black farm
youth organization in the wor ld. It is through this organization that he became
Paris Singer
Historical Society Palm Beach County
the most prominent Black scientists of the 20th century.
• In 1922, Spady accepted a position teaching in Delray Beach at Delray County
Training School, which also required him to be principal. He was the third African
American public -school teacher/principal working in Delray Beach.
• In 1926, he married Jessie B. Green . They built a Mission Revival- style, two -story
stucco home on today’s NW 5
th Avenue that was considered to be more luxurious
than the other primarily wooden structures in the area. Discover It: Today, the
home houses a museum of African American history in Delray Beach called the
Spady Cultural Heritage Museum – ( See Section 5 –
Our Cultural Heritage, Page 92)
• D uring his tenure at the Delray County Training School , it grew from offering
classes in first through eighth grade to offering classes through 12th grade, with
enrollment tripling from approximately 100 students to more than 300. In 1937, the school was renamed George Washington Carver High School .
• In addition to traditional subjects, Spady also taught woodshop and agricultural
classes. His woodshop students painted the school, built steps, and repaired furniture and farm tools. His agricultural students cultivated crops and prepared them for sale to the public. His students won several state agricultural
championships and many of them went on to attend the Tuskegee Institute, the
Hampton Institute, Atlanta University, and Florida A & M, to name a few.
• Spady retired in 1957 and moved back to Cape Charles, Virginia.
• In 1958, Carver High School was moved to a new building, with the old building
becoming an elementary school named S.D. Spady Elementary.
• In 1999, the City of Delray Beach awarded Spady the Great Floridians 2000 Award. The award was presented to his family and a replica is on display in the
Spady Cultural Heritage Museum. Solomon D. Spady
Historical Society Palm Beach County
With 47 miles of pristine Atlantic Ocean coastline and stretches of golden sand to pick
from, naming the best beach in The Palm Beaches is impossible. Encourage visitors and
locals to view beach cams and beach conditions on Discover The Palm Beaches ’ website
at -conditions .
Atlantic Dunes Park – 1605 S. Ocean Blvd., Delray Beach, FL, 33483, 561- 243-7250,
• Atlantic Dunes Park is a great option for those looking for a quiet and seren e
beach, nestled in a raised, green -canopied area with a wooden walkway and
observation platform.
Bark Park Dog Beach – 3001 N. S tate Road A1A, Boca Raton, FL, 33487 , 561-393-7810,
-Beach -at-Spanish -River -Park
• Dogs are allowed to mingle on this beach , between lifeguard t owers 18 and 20,
during designated hours. Use of Bark Park Beach requires owners to clean up
after their pets and they must purchase a permit . For more information, use the
website link above.
Boynton Beach Oceanfront Park – 6415 N. Ocean Blvd., Boynton Beach, FL, 33435,
561-742-6775, - -Park
• This beach offers canopy -covered walkways and benches, a Brazilian -walnut
hardwood boardwalk, a playground, a concession stand, and a large sea turtle
sculpture. Umbrella and lounge chair rentals are also available.
Section 4 – Our Beaches
Bark Park Dog Beach
-
about -the-spanish- river -dog-beach/
discover.
• This beach park has picnic area, restrooms, and the availability of beach
wheelchairs for the sand .
Coral Cove Park – 19450 State Rd. 707, Tequesta, FL, 33469, 561-966-6600,
discover. -Cove.aspx
• Located in the northern part of the county, Coral Cove Park offers a quieter
beach with the benefit of great snorkeling and paddleboarding.
Delray Beach Municip al Beach – 340 S. Ocean Blvd., Delray Beach, FL, 33483,
561-243-7250,
• Located near Atlantic Avenue’s many al fresco bistros, pubs, and unique shops, this beach is a great combination for those who want some sand and sun along with the atmosphere of Atlantic Avenue . The beach also hosts a variety of
events throughout the year, which can be found on the City’s website at
.
DuBois Park – 19075 Dubois Rd., Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561-966-6600,
discover.
• Located at the mouth of Jupiter Inlet, this beach offers great views of the Jupiter
Lighthouse . In addition to a swimming area, this is a good place for kayakers and
jet skiers to start their trip through the Intracoastal Waterway or out to sea from
the marina slips located here. Canoers and kayakers also have access to the
Loxahatchee River from the park.
Delray Beach
Municipal Beach
Discover The Palm Beaches
FL, 33408, 561- 624-6950, macarthurbeach.org
• With almost two miles of pristine beachfront, this quiet sanctuary is The Palm
Beaches only state park. Activities include swimming, snorkeling, and ocean
fishing. For more information about other activities at the state park .
Juno Beach Park – 14775 State Road A1A, Juno Beach, FL, 33408, 561-966- 6600,
discover. -Beach.aspx
• In addition to swimming, pier fishing is popular , and the beach has a bait shop
and concession stand.
Jupiter Beach Park – 1375 Jupiter Beach Rd., Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561-966-6600,
discover. -Beach.aspx
• This smaller beach park offers a lot of activities. In addition to swimming in the
ocean, a lagoon offers a refreshing dip.
Jupiter Dog Beach – From beach accesses 26 north of Ocean Cay Park to 57 south of
Carlin Park, Palm Beach County, 561-746-5134,
-on-the -Beach
• The Jupiter Dog Beach is the only free dog beach in The Palm Beaches . It is open
from su nrise to sunset. Owners must clean up after their pets.
Lake Worth Municipal Beach – 10 S. Ocean Blvd., Lake Worth, FL, 33460, 561- 533-7313,
-complex
• Swimming and surfing are popular at this beach, as is dining at nearby Benn y’s on
the Beach r estaurant .
• Also nearby is the Lake Worth Beach Casino Building and Beach Complex .
The casino is a venue for weddings and special
events and offers breathtaking views of the Atlantic Ocean in the 3,000-square-
Juno Beach
Discover The Palm Beaches
the Casino building has become a favorite destination for tourists.
• Additionally, the adjacent Beach Complex features a n oceanfront park,
restrooms, and picnic facilities which complement the William O. Lockhart
Municipal Pier.
Loggerhead Park – 14200 U.S. Highway 1, Juno Beach, FL, 33408, 561-966- 6600,
discover.
• Visitors enjoy building sandcastles and body surfing at the beach at Loggerhead
Park. Home to Loggerhead Marinelife Center, the park is also a great place to see
the center’s resident sea turtles.
Ocean Reef Park – 3860 N. Ocean Blvd., Riviera Beach, FL, 33404, 561-966- 6600,
discover. -Reef.aspx
• The boardwalk on this wide beach goes through and along the dune ecosystem
located here. A picnic pavilion, grills, and single picnic tables are located within
the park.
Ocean Cay Park – 2188 Marcinski Rd., Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561- 966-6611,
discover. -Cay.aspx
• The beachfront here is large and tucked down below the dunes . The park has
plenty of open grassy space, volleyball courts, grills , and picnic tables.
Peanut Island – 6500 Peanut Island Rd., Riviera Beach, FL, 33404, 561- 845-4445,
discover. -Island.aspx
• This island is a family sanctuary featuring great snorkeling, pathways, overnight
camping, and swimming. The best way to access the beach is via water taxi stops
from nearby Sailfish Marina or Riviera Beach Marina or anchor your boat along
the shoreline.
Peanut Island
Discover The Palm Beaches
discover.
• This is a great place to kayak, snorkel, and scuba dive. The waters under the Blue
Heron Bridge and the one-of-a-kind Underwater Snorkel Trail make this a
premier spot for experienced scuba divers and snorkeling beginners alike . The
area is frequently visited by stingrays, eels, giant starfish, brightly colored tropic al
fish, and even an occasional octopus or manatee. The variety of sea life seen here
is due to the park’s proximity to the Gulf Stream. As a result, the channel’s strong tidal flow often brings in various sea animals that were riding the Gulf Stream
from the south.
Red Reef Park – 1400 N. Ocean Blvd., Boca Raton, FL, 33432, 561-393-7810,
-Reef -Park -49
• Snorkel, nature walk, golf, and so much more are here. A renovated boardwalk
offers a pavilion, benches , and a beautiful view of the ocean. At the end of the
boardwalk is a brick walkway that extends to South Beach and from there another walkway to the Palmetto Park pavilion. There is also a 9 -hole golf course
beside the ocean and the Gumbo Limbo Center for nature lovers.
Snorkelers and
kayakers near the
Blue Heron Bridge in
Phil Foster Park
discover.
tions/Phil -Foster.aspx
Our cultural and historical influences have helped shape our community and are what make The Palm Beaches unique. As you read this section, think about the contributions
these cultural groups have made to our area . We wouldn’t be the diverse community
we are without them!
Our Divers e Heritage
The Palm Beaches’ p ioneers came from all countries and religious backgrounds.
Together these early settlers created the vibrant culture that exists today.
Native American Heritage
• As outlined in Section 1, Our Area’s Early History, Native American tribes have influenced our region for many years.
• Visitors can learn more about the Jobe and Jeaga tribes that originally settled in our area on the Early Native American History & Archaeology Tour at the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse. Discover It: Early Native American History & Archaeology Tour
– Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse, 500 Captain Armours Way, Jupiter, FL, 33469, 561 -747-
8380, -american-history-2-8-24/
• Remnants of one of the last coastal shell mounds in the region can be found at
DuBois Park in Jupiter . The park was once home to the Jobe and Jeaga tribes. It
also features the DuBois Pioneer Home , which is open for guided tours.
• Exhibits and artifacts of our region’s earliest inhabitants can be found at the Richard and Pat Johnson Palm Beach County History Museum .
• Visitors can learn more about the Seminole tribe at the Loxahatchee River Battlefield Park and the nearby recreated Seminole Village in Riverbend Park.
The battlefield park in Jupiter offers a one- mile trail with historic markers;
located at 9060 Indiantown Road, Jupiter, Florida.
• Local Native American tribal history is also on display at the Jupiter Inlet
Lighthouse & Museum , located across the Jupiter Inlet from DuBois Park.
Section 5 – Our Cultural Heritage
• GERMANY: Many of our early residents were of German descent . We celebrate
their heritage in several even ts, including Oktoberfest of the Palm Beaches in
Lake Worth Beach. The event includes traditional German food and drink, in
addition to performances by Oktoberfest bands from Germany. Arts and crafts,
carnival games, folk dancing, and a variety of vendors are also included in the event. Discover It: Oktoberfest of T he Palm Beaches – The American German
Club, 5111 Lantana Rd., Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33463, 561-967-6464,
• FINLAND: Palm Beach County is one of the largest Finnish communities in the U.S., particularly in Lake Worth Beach and Lantana. The Finnish arrived in the early 1900s as carpenters, maids, and cooks for wealthy people who began
moving to Palm Beach and West Palm Beach from the other parts of the country.
• Lake Worth Beach also has two stone monuments in its Bryant Park that honor
the Finnish. One honors Finnish World War II veterans, and the other is a pair of
geese commemorating the influx of immigrants from Finland to the area.
• Visitors can experience Finnish heritage at the Midnight Sun Festival , a Finnish
American festival held in Bryant Park in Lake Worth Beach each spring. The name
of the event comes from the fact that the sun basically never sets in Finland in the summer. The event features crafts, food, a wife -carrying obstacle course
competition, and local and international entertainment. Discover It: Midnight
Sun Festival – Bryant Park, Lake Ave., Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33460, 561-200-
8683,
Oktoberfest of
The Palm Beaches
Discover The Palm Beaches
• African Americans have lived in our area since the 1800s . The Spady Cultural
Heritage Museum exhibits share African American history locally and nationwide.
The museum’s Heritage Garden features plants and trees that flourished in
Delray Beach in the 1920s when Solomon D. Spady (See Section 3 – Our
Influential Citizens, Page 71) moved to the area. Discover It: Spady Cultural
Heritage Museum – 170 NW 5th Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33444, 561-279- 8883,
• Another way to experience African American culture is to attend the Juneteent h
Festival with lots of vendors, entertainment, and food. Discover It: Juneteenth
Festival –
Caribbean Heritage
• Many of today’s residents came here from Caribbean countries including the
Bahamas, Haiti, Jamaica, and Cuba. The Caribbean culture is reflected in both our
music and foods . Discover It: Visitors can enjoy a taste of Caribbean food and
music at the Florida Jerk Festival held in May – John Prince Park, 270 6th Ave. S.,
Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33461, -
details/florida -jerk-festival-2023/overview/
Hispanic and Latino Heritag e
• Hispanic and Latino heritage can be enjoyed throughout The Palm Beaches . In
addition, Fiesta de Pueblo is a Hispanic cultural and arts festival celebrating the
Three Wise Men. The January event includes music, food, art, a parade, games,
amusement park rides, and a business expo that showcases Hispanic businesses.
Discover It: Fiesta de Pueblo – Samuel J. Ferreri Community Park, 2905 Jog Rd.,
Greenacres, FL, 33467, 561-889-6527,
A vendor prepares food at the
Florida Jerk Festival
ainment/florida -jerk-festival -returns -for-
20th- anniversary -celebration/
• Our residents also include those of Japanese, Filipino, Bangladeshi and other
Asian cultures . These diverse communities enhance the cultural fabric of Palm
Beach County, promoting multiculturalism and inclusivity.
• The earliest Japanese immigrants established the Yamato Colony near Boca Raton
in 1905. The Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens is a beautiful center for
Japanese arts and culture. Experience the history and traditions of the Japanese
when exploring the 16- acres of gardens, ongoing exhibitions, authentic teahouse,
educational programs, and more. Discover It: Morikami Museum and Japanese
Gardens – 4000 Morikami Park Road, Delray Beach, FL 33446, 561-495-0233,
• Over the years, we have watch the Bangladeshi community grow and thrive, celebrating cultural events like Pahela Baishakh and Victory Day, and fostering
ties through organizations like the Bangladesh Association of Florida.
Jewish Heritage
• Palm Beach County has the fourth largest Jewish community in the nation.
19
• Kosher restaurants are prominent throughout the county and contribute to the
area’s vibrant culinary scene. Discover It: The Kosher Chobee – 4875 Okeechobee
Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL , 33417, 561-662- 2223,
• Additional Kosher Restaurants can be found on the Chabad of Palm Beach
Gardens website at
sting -of-Local -Kosher -Restaurants.htm
• There are also Jewish Community Centers in Boca Rato n , a s
well as in Boynton Beach an d Palm Beach Gardens
.
• A variety of programs about and for the Jewish culture are offered by the Jewish
Federation of Palm Beach County
Morikama Museum
and Japanese Gardens
-
content/uploads/2019/07/RockyPoint2- 1.jpg
• From weddings to pride events and organizations , The Palm Beaches hosts a
variety of options for the LGBTQ + community .
• With roots going back more than three decades, Compass LGBTQ Community
Center in Lake Worth Beach is one of the largest LGBTQ+ community centers in
the country.
o In addition to providing social services and enrichment programs, Compass
hosts the annual Palm Beach Pride.
o Compass also established the Stonewall Black and White Ball, an annual
outreach and fundraising event in West Palm Beach that celebrates LGBTQ+ history and highlights opportunities for social justice leadership.
o Each year, Compass partners with Palm Beach Dramaworks on the Legacy
Project. This effort pairs LGBTQ+ youth with trailblazers of the community for interviews about their personal histories, which are compiled into digital stories. Discover It: Compass LGBTQ Community Center – 201 N.
Dixie Hwy, Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33460, 561- 533-9699, compasslgbtq.com
• The first and only LGBTQ+ polo league in the world , the Gay Polo League
in Wellington was founded by Chip McKenney in 2006 to inspire and empower
those individuals who identify themselves as lesbian, gay, bisexual, and
transgender via the promotion of and participation in the sport of polo. In the
spring, the GPL hosts the International Gay Polo Tournament at the National
Polo C enter . The event combines serious competition with social events and
tailgates.
Palm Beach Pride
Discover The Palm Beaches
From steamboats to railroads to t oday’s automobile roads , transportation has played an
important role in the development of our area ’s early communities and industries.
Our Early Transportation
• The original inhabitants of Palm Beach County followed footpaths and traveled by natural waterways.
• In the 1820s, s tagecoach lines started out as routes for the U.S Postal Serv ice.
Eventually, the Postal Service turned the routes over to private companies that began transporting people and mail along the routes.
• By the mid -1800s, stagecoach routes became a vital mode of transportation ,
connecting towns and villages.
• As early as 1829, steamboats began to run on Florida rivers. They became
prevalent in the 1860s, transporting mail, supplies, goods, and people up and down the state.
• Palm Beach Lake Trail , a biking and walking path, was Palm Beach’s first street.
Early pioneer life centered on Lake Worth and the earliest houses and churches
were built along this street, including the Episcopal Church of Bethesda- by-the-
Sea, which can still be seen from the trail today.
• Railroads first arrived in the state in the 1860s with a line running f rom
Fernandina Beach to Cedar Key in the northern part of the state. As previously
mentioned, the Jupiter and Lake Worth Railroad was the first railroad to be
built in Palm Beach County . Its 7.5 -mile track was completed in 1889 between
Jupiter Inlet and Juno Beach, along Lake Worth (the body of water now referred
to as the Lake Worth Lagoon ). The route, which transported produce and
passengers , was often called the Celestial Railway because it had two other
stops called Mars and Venus .
Section 6 –
Our Transportation, Then & Now
Celestial Rail way
-era/
Jupiter to Juno and in reverse on the return trip. It was expensive to operate this
small railroad. The railroad was built to connect steamboat lines that traveled
out of the Jupiter Inlet and south from Lake Worth (the body of water, not the
town).
• By 1892, the Florida Coast Line Canal and Transportation Company’s series of
canals had reached Jupiter. The goal was to create an inland waterway along the
length of the Atlantic coast for transportation purposes, avoiding the hazards of
open ocean travel . In 1892, Henry Morrison Flagler invested in the company in
order to use some of the land granted to the company for his Florida East Coast Railway. The company dredged canals and connected natural waterways ,
which became known as the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway. The inland
waterway was completed in 1912, connecting Jacksonville to Miami.
• As mentioned, the Florida East Coast Railway arrived in West Palm Beach in
1894. The railroad was instrumental in founding and growing communities
located along its tracks.
• Two years later, i n 1896, t he Jupiter and Lake Worth Railroad went out of
business, as it couldn’t compete with Flagler’s more affordable Florida East Coast
Railway.
• The first major roadway to the Biscayne Bay region opened in 1892, running
from Lantana to North Miami.
• The arrival of the automobile required paved roads to be built in Florida. In
1915 , the Dixie Highway connected the towns and cities located in Florida to
those located along the South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee borders .
Intracoastal Waterway
-
source/seaport/pdfs/2015 -Florida -
Waterways -System -Plan_Final.pdf
Today, our transportation options for visitors include ride share like Uber and Lyft , as
well as taxis, car rentals, trains, trolley s, bike rentals, golf carts , and more!
• There are several options to travel by train in our area:
o Amtrak train servic e is available in West Palm Beach at the Amtrak/Tri- Rail
Station. Discover It: Amtrak – Amtrak/Tri-Rail Station, 209 S. Tamarind
Ave., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 800- 872-7245,
o Tri-Rail is a regional train system stretching from the Miami International
Airport to Mangonia Park, with stops in West Palm Beach, Lake Worth
Beach, Boynton Beach, Delray Beach , and Boca Raton. Discover It: Tri -Rail
– -rail.com
o The Brightline high -speed rail connects Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Aventura,
Boca Raton, West Palm Beach, and Orlando.
Here’s a Tip: Download the Brightline app for tickets, food menus, and
more. Discover It: Brightline –
• Greyhound bus service offers scheduled departures to cities throughout our area
and across the country from West Palm Beach, Boca Raton, and Jupiter . Discover
It: Greyhound –
• PalmTran , Palm Beach County’s public transportation system, provides a range of
transit services . Riders can download the Paradise Pass app for real -time transit
data, prices, and routes. Riders must pay with exact change or download and use the Paradise Pass app to pay with a credit card using their smartphones. Discover
It: PalmTran – 561-841 -4BUS ,
Brightline
high -speed trains
-
launches -orlando -service -in-florida/?gdpr=accept
• With its central location and congestion -free experience, Palm Beach
International Airport is the easiest way to fly in or out of The Palm Beaches.
PBI serves more than 6.7 million passengers each year. The airport offers 200
daily nonstop arrivals and departures to many destinations in the U.S., The
Bahamas , and Canada across 13 airlines .
• PBI was named the 8th Best Domestic Airport in Travel + Leisure's 2023 World's
Best Awards, 4th Best Airport in the U.S. in Conde Nast Travelers 2023 Readers'
Choice Awards .
• The airport also has unexpected amenities , such as an indoor putting green, free
Wi-Fi, and a pet -relief area. Visitors can relax in the Escape Lounge, the
Centurion ® Studio Partner at PBI , which is open to all travelers regardless of
airline or ticket class . The lounge not only offers an enticing menu of food and
beverages, but it also provides access to 7,000 digital publications in 60-plus
languages . Pay at the door or pre -book space in advance. Discover It: Palm Beach
International Airport – 1000 James L. Turnage Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL,
33415, 561-471-7420,
• Another option for visitors flying into the area is the Fort Lauderdale -Hollywood
International Airport , which is approximately 25 miles from Boca Raton.
This airport services more than 700 flights per day , with non -stop service to 75
U.S. cities and connectivity to 60 international destinations in 33 countries. Visitors can check with their airline to see if they provide this service. Discover It:
Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport – 11 Terminal Dr., Fort
Lauderdale, FL, 3315, 954-359-1200,
Palm Beach International Airport
Discover The Palm Beaches
, which is 47 miles south of Boca Raton. This airport services more than
1,000 flights daily to 167 domestic and international destinations on more than 90 airlines. Discover It: Miami International Airport – 2100 NW 42
nd Ave.,
Miami, FL, 33142, 305- 876-7000, -airport.com
Shuttle s, Taxis , Ride Share, and Rental Cars
• A variety of hired transportation options are available throughout The Palm
Beaches. See the “Ground Transportation” tab on the Palm Beach International
Airport’s website for t ransportation to and from the airport .
Many companies operate transportation services through out The Palm Beaches ,
as well.
• The P eanut Island Shuttle Water Taxi is available between Sailfish Marina and
Peanut Island. The shuttle runs seven days a week. For more information , visit
.
• Visitors to Delray Beach can download the Ride Freebee app to book free,
on-demand rides to anywher e in the downtown area.
• Visitors can download the Circuit App to book electric shuttle rides along
various downtown routes. Ride Circuit in Boca Raton, Boynton Beach and West
Palm Beach, Garden’s Mall , and Lake Worth Beach . The service in Boca R aton is
free but must start or end at the Boca Raton Brightline station and is for active
Brightline customers only. Rides within the West Palm Beach portion of the service area are free, but there is a charge for rides to and from the Town of Palm
Beach . Discover I t: Circuit App – -locations
• In Jupiter , visitors can use Zeke’s Golf Cart Taxi , 561-846-0411
• Uber and Lyft are available throughout the area. Travelers must download these
companies’ apps to their smartphones to arrange a ride.
Peanut Island Shuttle
Water Taxi
news/local/2022/03/25/exploring
-peanut -island -florida -water -taxi-
camping -and-more -
know/6998852001/
• F or visitors with no transportation or those who want help in discovering our
area, guided tours are just the thing. Visitors can explore the area by bus or boat
with knowledgeable and fun guides. For a list of tours , see the Discover The
Palm Beaches resources section of the Official Visitor s Guide or visit the website:
-sightseeing
Road Construction Updates
• Weekly Palm Beach County road and bridge construction updates can be found at
discover. .
Local Economy
Our Population
• There are approximately 1,500,000 residents in Palm Beach County. The median
property value in our county is $368,300, and the median yearly household
income is approximately $76,000.
• West Palm Beach is the largest city in the county and is the county seat.
Approximately 121,000 people live in West Palm Beach. The median property
value in West Palm Beach is $324,800, and the median yearly household income
is approximately $64,000.
Sources:
Our Metropolitan Area
• Palm Beach County is part of the Miami -Fort Lauderdale- West Palm Beach
Metropolitan Area, which is home to over six million people. The median
income in this metropolitan area is $62,870, and the median property value is
$317,800.
Section 7 – Our Demographics & Our Local Economy
South Florida
-
Florida -Bookies -081115L.jpg?itok=9hbrKnn -
Visitors will frequently ask about what drives our local economy. Palm Beach County
holds a diverse portfolio of economic drivers and industries that enhance job growth
and fuel our economy.
TOURISM
• Tourism is one of Palm Beach County’s major industries:
• Generates an annual economic impact of approximately $10 billion for
the local economy
• Includes $84 million in bed -tax revenue
• Supports more than 85,000 jobs
• Direct visitor spending positively impacts several sectors: Food & Beverage approximately $1.9 billion; Lodging $2.4 billion; Retail $1.1 billion; Recreation $1
billion; and Transportation within the county at $600,000.
• Because tourism is so important, the Palm Beach County Tourist Development
Council was established in 1981 by the Palm Beach County Commissioners.
• The entities that work hand -in-hand under the umbrella of the TDC are Discover
The Palm Beaches , the Cultural Council for Palm Beach County , the Palm Beach
County Film & Television Commission , and the Palm Beach County Sports
Commission .
• As the official tourism marketing corporation for Palm Beach County, the Mission of Discover T he Palm Beaches is simple:
Grow the Tourism Economy
The Business Development Board of Palm Beach County is designated by the
State of Florida and Palm Beach County Commission as Palm Beach County’s official
economic development organization.
• During their stay, tourists are introduced to Palm Beach County’s lifestyle and business environment, which could lead to more businesses choosing to locate or expand here. That’s where the Business Development Board comes in.
• The BDB works to achieve its goals by encouraging corporate relocations and expansions, working to increase international trade, and providing marketing
support and business networking services
Other Major Industries / Industry Clusters
It’s exciting to see all the wide variety of industries in our county. The following is a
snapshot of the industry clusters and information that can be found on the Business Development Board’s website:
AVIATION + AEROSPACE + ENGINEERING : This industry boomed in the 1990s,
when aircraft and rocket -engine company Pratt & Whitney moved here. As a result, our
county is recognized as a leader in this industry from maintenance and training to the production of aircraft, helicopters, and rocket and propulsion systems. Its 1,692 companies supply 19,883 jobs and $10.3 billion in economic impact – similar to the
economic $10 billion impact of Tourism.
20
AGRIBUSINESS / AGRICULTURE: Our county is one of the largest agriculture counties in
the United States, with 37% of its land mass – 456,001 acres – dedicated to agriculture.
This drives over $1.397 billion in economic impact, through 556 companies and 12,455 jobs. We also lead the nation in the productio n of sugar and sweet corn, with 18% of all
sugar sold in the U.S. produced here. The county is also the leading producer in Florida of rice, lettuce, bell peppers, radishes, and Chinese vegetables.
21
FINANCIAL SERVICES: Known among the nation’s leaders for business and financial
services, Palm Beach County is often referred to as “Wall Street South.” Companies include banking, wealth management, investment services, venture capital, and corporate finance firms. Combined they represent over 20,000 companies and over
300,000 jobs .
22
HEALTHCARE: More than 5,600 healthcare- related businesses can be found here. The
industry employs approximately 80,000 people.23
employees, information technology graduates from our state colleges and
universities, and cooperative alliances provide a favorable environment to technology
and communication companies. An $8 b illion industry, it includes over 2,500 companies
creating 19,599 jobs. We’ve been a leader in innovation since the IBM PC was created
here in Boca Raton.24
EQUESTRIAN: Palm Beach County has the highest concentration of sport horses in the
world, during the polo and equestrian season. More than 7,000 horses can be found in the county during this time with riders from 33 countries and all 50 U.S. states .
25
CLEANTECH: The confluence of geography and climate provides significant solar,
biomass, and ocean energy sources. Over 700 companies create over 8,500 jobs.
26
MARINE : A study by the Marine Industries Association of Palm Beach County shows the
marine industry has a $4.7 billion economic impact, employing 22,000 people. The industry includes marinas and boatyards, manufacturing, and boating -related services.
27
Our Institutions of Higher Education
• Florida Atlantic University opened in 1961 as the fifth public university in
Florida. Today, the University serves more than 30,000 undergraduate and
graduate students across six campuses along the southeast Florida coast. More
than 70% of the university’s student s attend classes at the Boca Raton campus,
which is the university’s largest campus. The majority of FAU’s degree programs
are based here. For more information, see
A rider competes during the
Winter Equestrian Festival
in Wellington.
Discover The Palm Beaches
• Palm Beach Atlantic University is a private, Christian university located in West
Palm Beach. Majors range from business and accounting programs to ministry and liberal arts programs. The school’s undergraduate enrollment is approximately 3,000 students. For more information, see .
• Nova Southeastern Universit y, in Palm Beach Gardens , offers online and in -
person classes in a variety of majors , focusing mainly on healthcare disciplines. To
learn more, see .
• Keiser Univer sity West Palm Beach offers a variety of majors in the business,
criminal justice, and healthcare industries. Online classes are also available. For
more information, see -palm -beach/ .
• Lynn University is a private university in Boca Raton offering more than 50
undergraduate and graduate programs in business, music, arts and sciences, and
education. The University also offers a doctoral program in education. More than
3,500 students attend the university, 17% of which are international students. The school is named after Eugene M. Lynn, an insurance magnate and major financial donor to the school. To learn more, see .
• Palm Beach State College has campuses in Belle Glade, Boca Raton, Loxahatchee,
and Palm Beach Gardens , with its largest in Lake Worth. Founded in 1933 as
Florida’s first public community college, Palm Beach State College now serves
more than 36,000 students from more than 150 countries across its campuses and online. In addition to offering associate’s degree programs, the school also
offers bac helor’s degree programs, professional certificates , customized career
training, and corporate and continuing education. For more information, see
.
Palm Beach State College
- c-
palm -beach- county/lake-
worth/palm -beach- state -college -
to-host -criminal- justice- job-fair Florida Atlantic University
North Region
• Jupiter is a favorite for families , as well as celebrities like Tiger Woods. Splash
your days away on gorgeous beaches, and wind down watching yachts pass by at a local tiki bar.
• Just down the coast is Juno Beach, where daily life revolves around the Juno
Beach Pier; rise early to catch one of the best sunrises in Florida, then spend the day surfing, fishing , or visiting the turtles at Loggerhead Marinelife Center.
• World -class golf, shopping , and resorts can be found in Palm Beach Gardens .
• If you prefer to spend your vacation exploring beneath the water’s surface, Riviera Beach and Singer Island is a hot spot for snorkeling and scuba
diving.
Central Region
• Central Palm Beach County is home to The Palm Beaches’ biggest city: West Palm
Beach . Perched on the shore of shimmering Lake Worth Lagoon, this city is a
haven of arts, culture, entertainment, events, restaurants , and nightlife.
• Just across the bridge is the T own of Palm Beach , America’s First Resort
Destination™ . Discover historic hotels and luxurious resorts, fine dining , and one
of the most iconic shopping districts in the world, Worth Avenue.
• Lake Worth Beach is among the quirkiest beach towns in Florida and is home to
one of the region’s largest LGBTQ+ communities.
• To the west is Wellington , known as the Winter Equestrian Capital of the World.
West Region
• Continue driving west and you’ll reach Lake Okeechobee and The Glades , where
a slower pace and agricultural setting offer a lesser -seen side of Florida.
• A cluster of farming communities includes the cities of Belle Glade, Pahokee, and
South Bay – known together as The Glades . Together, they form a major hub of
Florida’s agricultural heartland, as well as being a big draw for anglers.
• The Glades are our gateway to the Everglades , the largest subtropical wilderness
in the United States. Its waters provide an important habitat for numerous and
endangered species like the manatee.
28
Boating on Lake Okeechobee
Discover The Palm Beaches
• Venture to southern Palm Beach County to find Boynton Beach , offering boating,
water sports, and a laid -back flip -flop vibe year -round.
• Next is t he creative community of Delray Beach , a buzzing hub of entertainment ,
dining, nightlife, and the arts.
• Boca Raton is a dynamic city that loves its art, architecture, culture, and cuisine
just as much as its beautiful, palm -fringed beaches.
Our area is filled with resorts, performing arts, food, shops, parks, and festivals that can
only be found here and are what make The Palm Beaches so unique.
America’s First Resort DestinationTM
• As previously mentioned, Henry Flagler (See Section 3 – Our Influential Citizens,
Page 71) built the Royal Poinciana Hotel along Palm Beach in 1894, followed by
The Breakers in 1896. This led to branding The Palm Beaches as America’s First
Resort DestinationTM – the only destination developed exclusively for tourism.
• Today, The Palm Beaches are still known for resort life at locations like Eau Palm
Beach Resort & Spa, The Boca Raton, Four Seasons, Brazilian Court Hotel , The
Colony Palm Beach , and PGA National Resort.
Section 8 – Uniquely The Palm Beaches
Lobby in
The Boca Raton
Discover The Palm Beaches
Those wanting to treat the mind, body, and spirit are in luck when they visit The Palm Beaches . We’re home to some of the world’s best spas – each offering rejuvenating
settings, incredible treatments, and impeccable service.
• The “self -centered garden” at the Eau Spa at Eau Palm Beach Resort has a
dipping pool and hanging chairs. This Forbes Five Star Award -winning spa also
offers decadent treatments that combine oriental teas, precious oils and butters,
as well as signature facials and peels.
• The Breakers has an exquisite indoor outdoor spa and the property features
other wellness activities like golf, tennis, and best -in-class Ocean Fitness c enter.
• Those wanting a holistic approach will appreciate the Tammy Fender Spa at
Opal Grand in downtown Delray Beach , featuring the work of holistic pract itioner
Tammy Fender.
• Spa Palmera at The Boca Raton is a luxurious experience and is another Forbes
Five Star Award-winning spa.
• It seems the opportunity to relax and rejuvenate in our many spas is around every corner in The Palm Beaches. See the Discover Th e Palm Beaches Official
Visitors Guide or website for more locations and information.
-wellness
Eau Spa at
Eau Palm Beach Resort
Discover The Palm Beaches
The Palm Beaches have been the backdrop for dozens of movies and television shows
throughout the years . Streaming services like Apple TV, Peacock, Netflix, Hulu, BBC, and
Paramount+ have also used Palm Beach County in recent years as a backdrop for many
shows .
Movies
• The Irishman used The Palm Beaches to shoot its warmer climate scenes
including at Lantana Airport and Palm Beach Kennel Club.
• The Baywatch film featured scenes in Boca Raton, Hillsboro Beach, and
nearby Deerfield Beach.
• Palm Beach County was the backdrop for much of Robert De Niro’s The
Comedian including Palm Beach International Airport, The Colony Hotel,
and Worth Avenue.
• Opening scenes of Marley & Me were filmed in downtown West Palm
Beach.
• 2 Fast 2 Furious was filmed in West Palm Beach and Boca Raton.
• A house explosion in Bad Boys 2 was filmed in Delray Beach.
• Many scenes in Heartbreakers were filmed at The Breakers in Palm Beach.
• Donnie Brasco included scenes filmed at the Palm Beach Kennel Club in
West Palm Beach and Rapids Water Park in Riviera Beach.
• The Everglades in Palm Beach County hosted scenes in Cape Fear .
• Portions of Body Heat were filmed in Lake Worth and Palm Beach.
• The yacht club scenes in Caddyshack were filmed at the Boca Raton
Resort & Club.
• Scenes from Smokey and the Bandit II were filmed at Burt Reynold’s
ranch in Jupiter. He also starred in the movies as Bandit.
Television / Streaming
• Former Bachelor Tyler Cameron filmed Going Home with Tyler Cameron
in his hometown of Jupiter, featuring well-known attractions such as the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse and local beaches.
• The popular television series B.L. Stryker starring Burt Reynolds was
filmed in parts of Palm Beach County , incorporating local landmarks and familiar
sights.
• Other shows and documentaries include: Full Swing ; Palm Royale; t he Real Housewives of Miami ; Apples Never Fall ; Hot
Yachts Miam i; The Beauty Queen Killer; Basketbal l Wives Orlando ; Top Gear;
Dr. Pimple Popper ; Billion Dollar Buyer ; 90 Day Fiancé; Diners , Drive -Ins and
Dives; Designing Spaces ; The Bachelorette ; House Hunters; Wildlife
Florida Yard; Shark Tank ; I am Jazz; Love & Hip Hop Miami ; Top
Gear , Military Makeover with Montel Williams ; and more.
Our Shopping Districts
See the Official Visitors Guide an d f or a
complete listing of specialty shops and shopping districts in our destination.
V
isitors often want to take something home with them that’s unique to our area . Many
of our cities’ historic downtowns and neighborhood main streets are brimming with
eclectic boutiques, galleries, and gift shops , such as :
• Downtown West Palm Beach is the ideal place for shopping , where shoppers will
find handcrafted wares, high -end fashion, and one-of-a-kind boutiques that fit
any budget. Local favorites include:
o Pioneer Linens , an ic onic store that offers high -
quality, luxury bed linens, bath towels and rugs, as well as various home decorations and accessories.
o Ci
tyPlace , formerly known as The Square , is an
open-air retail district with boutiques, trendy restaurants and pop -up
events.
o An
tique Row , w here shoppers will find
more than 40 antique shops offering pieces from the 17th to the 20th
centuries.
o N orthwood Village /Old Northwood , a n artsy
enclave of shops located just north of downtown West Palm Beach where visitors can find lots of unique items.
CityPlace
Discover The Palm Beaches
shopping boutiques and dining .
• Palm Beach’s Worth Avenue is a lan dmark thoroughfare
studded with high -end designers, posh eater ies, and bougainvillea-draped
walkways leading to picturesque courtyards.
o F
or book lovers, Raptis Rare Books is an Antiquarian Book firm with a
reputation for unique and important books that are in exceptional
condition , including first editions, signed and inscribed books.
o The original Lil ly Pulitzer is located on Worth
Avenue, with other locations in Boca Raton , Delray Beach, and Palm
Beach Gardens. At the Palm Beach location, shoppers can design their
own custom shift dress.
Lilly Pulitzer
Flagship Store
Worth Avenue
i.
3f749046323392f56107fc.jpg
Palm Beach’s Worth Avenue
Discover The Palm Beaches
boutiques and
restaurants .
• D
owntown Boca Raton’s Royal Palm Place ( -
dining/ ) offers a variety of boutiques selling unique fashions, jewelry, and home
goods.
• D owntown Delray Beach’s Atlantic Avenue is a
pedestrian -friendly throughfare lined with boutiques, art galleries , bustling cafes,
cocktail bars, and hotels.
• D owntown Lake Worth Beach’s outdoor shopping includes clothing boutiques,
art galleries, accessories , and more.
• Mizner Park in Boca Raton p rovides a mix of shopping,
dining, and cultural experiences and has significantly contributed to the revitalization of downtown Boca Raton.
• High -end consignment is extremely popular in The Palm Beaches with many
boutiques and shops. Some of the destination’s best include Dina C’s Fab &
Funky Consignment Boutique and Kismet Village in West Palm Beach, The
RealReal in Palm Beach, POSH Consignment by V in Boca Raton, Second Time
Around in Delray Beach, and Man Cave Consignment for Men in Jupiter. The
Church Mouse is one of the top donation - based resale
shops in the country that supports The Church of Bethesda- by-the-Sea. The store
offers men’s and women’s designer clothing, antiques, artwork, furniture, and more. For information about all of these stores and more high -end consignment
in The Palm Beaches, see -sec
ondhand -
fashion-stores- palm -beaches .
Royal Poinciana Plaza
Discover The Palm Beaches
The Palm Beaches have become a haven for food enthusiasts and connoisseurs alike,
attracting the most celebrated, award -winning chefs. See the Official Visitors Guide an d
for a comprehensive listing of our area’s culinary
offerings and the culinary maestros who serve our area.
• O ur food reflects the wide array of cultures that make up our area. And one of
the best things about living in such a diverse community is the variety of
restaurants , including everything from Cuban, Peruvian, and Jamaican to
Mexican, Chinese , and Italian.
• Our area specialties include fried alligator, grouper, mahi mahi , and other
freshly caught seafood and can be found on many of the menus in our
restaurants. Stone crab is another favorite local delicacy served at man y
establishments during stone crab season, which runs October 15 to May 1.
Larger stone crabs are often found in the waters off Palm Beach.
• Diners can choose from down -home style cafés and local brewpubs to upscale
fine dining and everything in between. Some eateries include:
o Ci ty Diner is a diner with a 50’s vibe that serves breakfast, lunch, and
dinner. Discover It: City Diner – 3400 S. Dixie Hwy., West Palm Beach,
FL, 33405, 561- 659-6776,
o Grandview Public Market is an artisanal food hall with street-food-
style creations. Discover It: Grandview Public Market – 1401 Clare
Ave., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 561- 206-2148, grandviewpublic.com
o Visitors craving a taste of Latino culture while in The Palm Beaches should head to Greenacres , where they’ll find Cuban, Puerto Rican,
and South American influences, among others. Enjoy authentic Puerto Rican food at La Cosinita Latina , a restaurant featured on Food
Network’s Diners, Drive -Ins and Dives . Discover It: La Cosinita Latina –
Grandview Public Market
o Stage Kitchen & Bar is a small -plates experience
from James Beard Foundation Award -nominee Chef Pushkar Marathe,
inspired by diverse culinary influences from across the world .
Discover It: Stage Kitchen & Bar – 2000 PGA Blvd., Suite 5502, Palm
Beach Gardens, FL, 33408, 561-408- 3685,
o Enjoy a sweet treat while exploring the shops and attractions in Palm
Beach at Piccolo Gelato is a charming gelateria offering authentic
Italian gelato made with innovative creations and daily crafted flavors. Discover It: Piccolo – 66 Via Mizner, Palm Beach, FL , 33480, 561-655-
8786,
Our Waterfront Dining
See the Official Visitors Guide and -restaurants-
waterfront-dining-south -florida for a comprehensive listing of our area’s culinary
offerings.
• Waterfront dining is prevalent all over the east coast of The Palm Beaches.
Diners can arrive by boat or car at 1000 North and revel in views of the Jupiter
Inlet Lighthouse and Intracoastal Waterway. This is an elegant place to celebrate
special moments while munching on the Palm Beach Tower consisting of an epic display of oysters , shrimp, stone crab claws, and lobster. The menu also features
modern American regional and seafood dishes. Discover It: 1000 North – 1000 N.
US Hwy 1, Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561-57- 1000, 1000north.com
• Benny’s on the Beach offers a quintessential beachfront dining experience on the
Lake Worth Pier for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. The popular spot combines laid -
back charm with delicious cuisine served on the outdoor deck or inside the
1000 North’s
waterfront patio
Blvd., Lake Worth Beach, FL , 33460, 561-582- 9001,
• Deck 84 in Delray Beach is known for its casual yet upscale atmosphere, featuring
fresh seafood, American classics, and craft cocktails. Indoor and outdoor seating
with panoramic views of passing boats and the bustling Delray scene is provided
whether for brunch, lunch, or dinner . Discover It: Deck 84 – 840 E. Atlantic Ave.,
Delray Beach, FL , 33484, 561-665-8484,
• A l Fresco , located at the Palm Beach Par 3 Golf Course, is renowned for its
sophisticated yet relaxed atmosphere, where guests can enjoy classic Italian
cuisine crafted from the freshest ingredients. Discover It: Al Fresco – 2345 S.
Ocean Blvd., Palm Beach, FL , 33480, 561-773- 4130,
• Guanabanas is a vibrant waterfront restaurant known for its laid -back
atmosphere and lush tropical surroundings. Nestled along the Loxahatchee River ,
Guanabanas offers a unique dining experience heaped with fresh seafood and
eclectic dishes inspired by Caribbean and Floridian flavors. Discover It:
Guanabanas – 960 N. Hwy. A1A, Jupiter, FL , 33477, 561-747-8878,
• Frigate’s Waterfront Bar & Grill is a charming dining spot offering stunning views
of the Intracoastal Waterway. Arrive by land or boat for casual dining and hand -
crafted drinks. Discover It: Frigate’s – 400 US Highway 1, North Palm Beach, FL ,
33408, 561-855-7497,
Our Award- Winning Chefs
In the past few years, Palm Beach Country has attracted award- winning chefs who h ave
garnered national and international acclaim . These chefs include Lindsay Autry ; Cindy
Bearman and Jeremy Bearman ; Daniel Boulud ; Clay Conley ; Jeremy Ford ; and Pushkar
Marathe. Learn more about these culinary maestros at:
-winning-chefs -in-the-palm -beaches
Craft Beer, Wine, & Spirits
There’s no better way to get a taste of The Palm Beaches than through our
craft beer . From Saison’s to sours to bright, refreshing lagers that taste like Florida
sunshine in a bottle, there’s something here to please every palate —beer snobs
included. Throughout the county, close to 20 hyper -local, independently owned and
fiercely creative breweries are taking the craft to the next level. Many of them also
serve hard ciders and wine. For more information on our breweries , see
-breweries .
find it at one of our distilleries in West Palm Beach:
o Steel Tie Spirits Co.
o Revenge Rum
• BREWERIES – A few of our popular breweries include:
o Twisted Trunk Brewing in Palm Beach Gardens serves anything from
strawberry -infused ales to mocha stouts. Discover It: Twisted Trunk
Brewing – 2000 PGA Blvd. #5506, Palm Beach Gardens, FL, 33408, 561-
671-2337, twistedtrunkbrewing.com
o Copperpoint Brewing Company , located in Boynton Beach , rotates
different local gourmet food trucks every week in front of the brewery.
Discover It: Copperpoint Brewing Company – 151 Commerce Rd., Boynton
Beach, FL, 33426, 561- 508-7676, copperpointbrewingcompany.com
o Saltwater is Delray Beach’s first and only microbrewery , located off I -95 on
the West side of the highway. Discover It: Saltwater Brewery – 1701 W.
Atlantic Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33444, 561- 865-5373,
saltwaterbrewery.com
Restaurant Mont h
• Downtown Delray Beach Restaurant Month is held in September and various
downtown Delray Beach restaurants offer prix-fixe menus and BOGO (buy one,
get one) deals for diners to enjoy. Discover It: Downtown Delray Beach
Restaurant Month –
• Flavor South Florida is also celebrated throughout September when Palm Beach
County is transformed into a culinary paradise. Locals and visitors alike can savor
specially crafted prix-fixe menus prepared by South Florida’s top chefs at our
finest restaurants. Discover It: Flavor South Florida –
Culinary Tourism / Agritourism
• Culinary tourism puts visitors behind the scenes during facility tours at local
businesses such as Tropical Acres Farms .
• Guided food tours by West Palm Beach Food Tours expose visitors to the
incredible array of restaurant s, wh ile learning more about neighborhoods,
history , and culture. Learn more at:
• Agricultural tourism, or Agritourism , is one of the fastest growing segments of
the tourism industry.
flowers in the U.S. The farmers here cultivated 14 varieties of gladiola, including
the Red Charm, Phantom Beauty, Snow Princess, Margaret Beaton, Elizabeth the
Queen, and Spotlight. The first Gladioli Festival and Fair was planned in 1947.
In its heyday, the festival attracted locals , as well as Hollywood stars to Atlantic
Avenue.29 Today, this festival is called the Delray Affair and gladiolas are
featured , along with a variety of arts, crafts, and entertainment , along 10 city
blocks. Discover It: Delray Affair – delrayaffair.com
• Another unique product that is currently being produced in The Palm Beaches are plates and containers made from sugarcane residue and fibers. These
disposable containers decompose much more quickly than Styrofoam or plastic
containers, making them much more eco-friendly. They are created by a company named Tellus , located in Belle Glade. For more information, see
.
• Open- air green markets and farmers markets offer a blissful bounty of produce,
and flowers, along with handcrafted goodies and creations from local
vendors. Suggest to visitors that they check out the green markets and farmers
markets in West Palm Beach, Delray Beach, and Palm Beach Gardens . Additional
markets include the Lake Worth Beach Farmers Market , the Swank Farmers
Market in Loxahatchee Groves, and the Lakeside Market at Wellington Town
Center .
• The West Palm Beach GreenMarket started in 1995 and is a three-time
cons ecutive winner of Best Farmers Market in America.
- events/events/the-west-palm -beach -
greenmarket
• Shop with 70+ farmers, bakers, and small batch culinary artists at Delray Beach
GreenMarket , featuring live music, bi-weekly chef showcase and more. Discover
It: Delray Beach GreenMarket – 51 N. Swinton Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33444,
561-276-7511,
• Craft Food Tours in Delray Beach are a great way to experience South Florida’s
food, drink, and culture. Discover It: Craft Food Tours – 103 NW 3rd Ave., Delray
Beach, FL, 33444, 954- 559-8456,
Delray Affair
-
festivals/florida -festival -calendar/
trees. Find a list of local Farmer’s Markets and U -Pick farms at
Our Nightlife
See the Official Visitors Guide and f or the variety of
nightlife and entertainment options in our area. For a schedule of who’s playing
where, check out the entertainment section of The Palm Beach Post at
.
• Nighttime in The Palm Beaches is truly magical, offering a wide variety of bars
and clubs to keep the fun going after sunset.
• Visitors can s tart on Clematis Street in West Palm Beach, where historic buildings
house an array of shops, bars, and clubs.
o E.R. Bradley’s Saloon is a historic and iconic waterfront restaurant that embodies the charm and essence of Florida’s coastal dining. Named after
the legendary local businessman and philanthropist, the relaxed and
inviting restaurant offers old -world charm , as well.
o Clematis Social is an elevated nightlife experience offering an upscale
atmosphere with pool tables and great music. Grab a bite, as well, with a
range of options from gourmet burgers and artisanal pizzas to fresh seafood and innovative small plates.
o Clematis by Night happens every Thursday featuring a wide variety of
music genres and live performances – all for free. Encourage visitors and
locals to chill out South Florida style on the Great Lawn in downtown West Palm Beach . -
events/events/clematis -by-night
• Delray Beach’s Atlantic Avenue , known as “The Ave,” is a pedestrian -friendly
haven with a bustling atmosphere. Here, a plethora of restaurants, coffee shops, Clematis Street
Discover The Palm Beaches
food and drinks, Park Tavern for craft cocktails, and City Oyster & Sushi Bar for
delectable seafood. If visitors are looking for dancing , they can d ance the night
away at Honey or Tin Roof, or have a playful night at Throw Social with games
and cocktails.
• In the north of the county, Jupiter Inlet offers a magical setting with lavish
mansions and stunning views. The Woods is a high -end sports bar, while U-Tiki
Beach serves fresh seafood with breathtaking waterfront views. Guanabanas is
an open -air restaurant and bar with live music, and Square Grouper is a popular
tiki bar with a scenic view of the Jupiter Lighthouse.
• If guests are looking for a fun rooftop atmosphere to enjoy, tell them about Capri
Rooftop Lounge Bar , Spruzzo , The Treehouse, and Bar Capri , offering amazing
views of the waterfront and the City of West Palm Beach . Rosewater Rooftop by
Akira Back in Delray Beach offers food, drinks , and live music steps away from
Atlantic Ave. Topside at The Beacon in Jupiter provides a rooftop bar experience
with tropical decor.
Our Festivals and Unique Events
See the Discover The Palm Beaches Calendar of Events at
f
or a current list of all that’s happening.
Our festivals and events celebrate our diverse cultural heritage, as well as our area ’s
unique history, offering great live entertainment, games, food, and cultur e.
• A few of our other annual festivals and events are:
o Artigras Fine Arts Festival – Palm Beach Gardens
o The Palm Beach Show – West Palm Beach
o Fiesta de Pueblo – Greenacres
o South Florida Fair – West Palm Beach
o Palm Beach Polo Season – Wellington
Rosewater Rooftop by Akira Back
o Delray Beach Open – Delray Beach
o Lake Worth Street Painting Festival – Lake Worth Beach
o Manatee Fest – Riviera Beach
o Wellington Bacon & Bourbon Fest – Wellington
o Spring Training – West Palm Beach & Jupiter
o Cognizant Classic in The Palm Beaches – Palm Beach Gardens
o Festival of the Arts Boca – Boca Raton
o Palm Beach Pride – Lake Worth Beach
o TurtleFest – Juno Beach
o Palm Beach International Boat Show – West Palm Beach
o Barret t-Jackson Auto Auction – West Palm Beach
o Delray Affair – Delray Beach
o Sweet Corn Fiesta – West Palm Beach
o Palm Beach International Jazz Festival – West Palm Beach
o SunF est – West Palm Beach
o The Pink Retreat – The Palm Beaches
o Unity x Black Excellence Festival – West Palm Beach
o Oktoberfest – Lake Worth Beach
o Boynton Beach Haunted Pirate Fest & Mermaid Splash –
Boynton Beach
o Lagoon Fest – West Palm Beach
o Eudemonia – West Palm Beach
o The Garden of Life Palm Beaches Marathon –
West Palm Beach
o Palm Beach Food & Wine Fest ival – Multiple Cities
o Holiday in Paradise – West Palm Beach
o Palm Beach Holiday Boat Parade –
North Palm Beach to Jupiter
Our Visual Arts
See The Palm Beaches Official Visitors Guide
( pl us visit the Cultural Council for
Palm Beach County’s site for a listing of arts
groups, museums, and galleries in our destination.
L
ook around. It isn’t hard to see why The Palm Beaches’ scenic beauty has inspired
generations of artists and collectors . Read on to find the many ways to enjoy our
variety of visual arts.
dynamic changing exhibitions and distinguished permanent collection. The
Museum ’s permanent collection focuses on drawings, paintings, photographs,
sculpture, African Art, studio glass, and ceramics . Changing exhibits are mainly
international in scope, while reflecting the artistic expression of the region and city. The Museum of Art’s public programs include artist presentations, family
activities , and more than 100 classes per week at its studio Art School. Discover
It: Boca Raton Museum of Art – bocamuseum.org (
See the Attractions Section,
Page 174)
• Founded in 1941 by Ralph Hubbard Norton and his wife Elizabeth Calhoun
Norton, the Norton Museum of Art houses a far -ranging collection of art with
distinguished holdings in American, European, and Chinese art, as well as
Photography. The museum was the first art museum opened in the area. Since
2011, the museum has hosted Recognition of Art by Women , an annual series that celebrates the contribution of living female painters and sculptors with solo exhibitions. Discover It: Norton Museum of Art – 1450 S. Dixie Hwy,
West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 561- 832-5196,
• House d in a 1939 Art Deco building known as The Armory building, the Armory
Arts Center features exhibitions, art salons, lectures, and special events. The
center also provides art classes for all ages and abilities and has provided
workshops to the community , taught by national and international visiting
master artists. The center was created when the Norton Museum closed its art school in 1986. Discover I t: Armory Art Center – 811 Park Pl., West Palm Beach,
FL, 33401, 561- 832-1776, armoryart.org
• The Cornell Art Museum is located in the restored 1913 Delray Elementary
School Building on the Old School Square campus. The first floor features two
large galleries for the main exhibits and the Spotlight Gallery for changing month -
long exhibits by local artists. The second floor offers four more galleries. The Norton Museum of Art
Discover The Palm Beaches
contemporary artist s.
• Old School Square is an arts district that includes the Cornell Art Museum, the
Creative Arts School, the Crest Theatre, an event center called The Fieldhouse,
and an outdoor performance facility called The Pavilion. Discover It: Old School
Square – 51 N. Swinton Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33444, 561- 243-1077,
• The West Palm Beach Arts & Entertainment District is an area of more than 20
inspiring arts and entertainment venues that includes art and history museums, galleries, libraries, performing arts companies , and art education institutions. The
district hosts a variety of artistic events throughout the year, including
FOTOfusion, which showcases photographic excellence in fine art, landscape,
nature, photojournalism, and sports. Another popular event is Harmony , a free
performance along the waterfront at the Meyer Amphitheater that often features the Palm Beach Symphony, Ballet Palm Beach, and the Dreyfoos School of the Arts Dance Department. Discover It: West Palm Beach Arts &
Entertainment District – 300 Clematis Street, Suite 200, West Palm Beach, FL,
33401 , -and-e/about/
• Dotted with murals and sculptures, the Pineapple Grove Arts District is Delray
Beach’s colorful arts district . It features an eclectic mix of unique public art
pieces, boutiques, Artist’s Alley, and fine art galleries , in addition to the Arts
Garage, a performing arts venue. Here’s a tip: The district hosts the First Friday
Art Walk from October through May, which features open studios and artist
meet -and -greets. Discover It: Pineapple Grove Arts District – NE 2
nd Avenue from
NE 1st St. to NE 4th St., Delray Beach, FL, 33444, 561- 243-1077,
• The Delray Beach Art Trail features dozens of murals and art installations. For
more information, see delrayarttrail.com .
• The Benzaitan Center for Creative Arts provides affordable studio rates to
emerging glass and metal artists in The Palm Beaches. They also provide a gallery
West Palm Beach
Arts & Entertainment
District
Discover The Palm Beaches
center’s various events that include demonstrations, art classes, art auctions, and art-focused fundraisers. Discover I t: Benzaitan Center for Creative Art s – 1105
2
nd Ave. S., Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33449, 561- 508-7315,
• Visitors will enjoy world -class photography exhibits at the P alm Beach
Photographic Centre, which has free admission. The museum also hosts an annual FOTOfusion Festival which features photos shoots, workshops, lectures,
portfolio reviews, and hands -on computer labs. Discover It: Palm Beach
Photographic Centre – 415 Clematis St., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 561- 253-
2600,
• The Palm Beaches has begun to build a reputation as one of the nation’s most
dynamic hubs for mural art. Local, national, and international artists have
enriched public spaces, streetscapes, a nd buildings with artwork inspired by The
Palm Beaches’ diverse communities and natural beauty. There are now hundreds of colorful murals on display from Jupiter to Boca Raton. For a map of murals in
West Palm Beach, see -and-e/mural -map/ . For a list of
some of the most popular murals in the area, see
-m urals -palm -beaches .
Our Performing Arts
See the Official Visitors Guide and plus
for a listing of performing arts groups and
venues in our destination.
O
ur area is alive with ballet, opera, symphony orchestras, dance, community theater
and big -name performing acts. Our performing arts venues are home to world -class
performing arts organizations including:
Interconnected mural on the
Cultural Council Building
Discover The Palm Beaches
County. Its season runs from December through April and includes world -class
opera performances at the Kravis Center. Productions feature internationally
renowned artists from around the world , accompanied by the Palm Beach Opera
Orchestra. Discover It: Palm Beach Opera – Kravis Center for the Performing Arts,
701 Okeechobee Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 561-833- 7888, pbopera.org
• As Florida’s largest award- winning not -for-profit professional regional theatre,
the Maltz Jupiter Theatre produces year -round entertainment featuring
Broadway -caliber musicals, dramatic works, concerts, family programming , and
classes for all ages at its Goldner Conservatory of Performing Arts. The Theatre
draws 100,000 people annually. Discover It: Maltz Jupiter Theatre – 1001 E.
Indiantown Rd., Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561 -575-2223,
• Ar
ts Garage is a vibrant cultural hub dedicated to showcasing diverse forms of art
and performance. Housed in a versatile, urban -chic space, t his dynamic venue
features an intimate setting and serves as a community cornerstone, offering a
wide range of artistic experiences that include live music, theater, visual arts, and
educational programs. Discover It: Arts Garage – 94 NE 2nd Ave., Delray Beach, FL
33444, 561-450-6357,
• Palm Beach Dramaworks is a professional non -profit theatre company that
performs timeless productions that are well- known to theatregoers , in addition
to promoting new plays through their Dramaworkshop . The theatre also has an
educational arm dedicated to introducing youth and the community to the joy of
theatre. Discover It: Palm Beach Dramaworks – 201 Clematis St., West Palm
Beach, FL, 33401, 561- 514-4042,
Maltz Jupiter Theatre’s
production of
In the Heights
mi/article/BWW -Review -IN-
THE-HEIGHTS -at-Maltz -Jupiter -
Theatre -20190701
• Several of our annual events celebrate the performing arts in The Palm Beaches .
• Festival of the Arts BOCA features several of the world’s most sought -after
classical and contemporary performers, as well as award- winning authors and
speakers, cirque performances, story slams, and film screenings. Discover It:
Festival of the Arts Boca – 590 Plaza Real, Boca Raton, FL, 33432,
festivalboca.org
• The Palm Beach Shakespeare Festival is Palm Beach County’s longest -running
summertime cultural tradition. Performed in Carlin Park’s Seabreeze
Amphitheater, the productions are free to the public . In addition to works by
Shakespeare, the festival often includes other productions including original and contemporary performances. Discover It: Palm Beach Shakespeare Festival –
Carlin Park Seabreeze Amphitheater – 400 Florida A1A, Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561-
762-8552, pbshakespeare.org
• Florida’s largest waterfront music festival, SunF est, is held each May celebrating
art and music in West Palm Beach. The event is packed with headliners and local performances and also includes a variety of food vendors, interactive activities, and floating bars. Food options include everything from Caribbean flavors to
barbecue and ethnic foods. Discover It: SunF est – Downtown West Palm Beach,
Performance Venues
• Some of our major performance venues are:
• The Kravis Center for the Performing Arts contains three venues: the 2,195-
seat Alexander W. Dreyfoos, Jr. Concert Hall, the flexible 289- seat Rinker
Playhouse and the 170 -seat Helen K. Persson Hall. Discover It: Kravis Center
for the Performing Arts – 701 Okeechobee Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401,
561-651-4444,
Kravis Center for the
Performing Arts
Discover The Palm Beaches
• iTHINK Financial Amphitheatre at the South Florida Fairgrounds hosts
concerts by nationally known bands. The open-air amphitheater can seat
approximately 19,000 people. Discover It: iTHINK Financial Amphitheatre –
South Florida Fairgrounds, 601 -7 Sansburys Way, West Palm Beach, FL, 33411,
561-795-8883,
• The Society of the Four Arts annually offers hundreds of programs, including
live performances, art exhibits, workshops, films, children’s programs, and
more. The 10-acre campus along the Lake Worth Lagoon in Palm Beach
includes a performance hall, an art gallery, a modern education center
devoted to lifelong learning, a library, a children’s library, and beautiful
sculpture gardens. Discover It: Society of the Four Arts – 100 Four Arts Plaza,
Palm Beach, FL, 33480, 561-655-7227, fourarts.org
Natural Assets
Visitors also ask about our climate and natural features. Here’s a snapshot of what
makes our area so wonderful.
Our Climate
• It’s no wonder that Florida is called The Sunshine State . For more than 125 years,
The Palm Beaches have been renowned as the warm -weather getaway by
visitor s.
• The area has a subtropical climate with warm summers and very mild winters.
Humidity throughout the year runs from approximately 66-75%.
• Palm Beach County’s pleasant weather is in part due to its proximity to the Gulf
Stream, which flow s through the Atlantic Ocean. The Gulf Stream is like a warm
river flowing through the ocean and is located only about a mile offshore from
Palm Beach County , near the Lake Worth Inlet . The breezes that accompany the
Gulf Stream warm Palm Beach County in the winter and cool it in the summer,
creating the comfortable temperatures you see below.
Average Temperatures for West Palm Beach
Month Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Average
High 76° 77° 79° 83° 86° 89° 90° 91° 89° 85° 81° 77°
Average
Low 58° 60° 63° 67° 72° 75° 76° 76° 75° 72° 66° 61°
Average
Rainfall .93 .95 1.29 1.21 1.9 5.2 3.7 4.74 4.63 2.22 1.28 1.13
Sources: -palm -beach/climate
Our Geology and Geography
• Palm Beach County is located in the southeastern portion of the state of Florida.
The county is bordered to the north by Martin County, to the east by the Atlantic
Ocean, to the south by Broward County, to the west by Hendry County and the
northwest by Lake Okeechobee.
• The geology of southeastern Florida is different than the geology of central and
western Florida in that the sand layer on top is much deeper . The layer beneath
the sand is limestone that runs through the entire state. Because the sand layer
Section 9 – Our Climate & Natural Assets
it. This means that the area is not prone to sinkholes as are other parts of the
state.
• The northern reaches of t he Everglades , a subtropical freshwater wetland
spanning two million acres across central and southern Florida , are located in
Palm Beach Count y. During the summer, Lake Okeechobee overflows, releasing
water into a very slow -moving, shallow river dominated by sawgrass marsh. The
water flows southward at the rate of a quarter mile per day, passing through
diverse habitats, including cypress swamps, wet prairie, and mangroves until it
reaches Everglades National Park and eventually Florida Bay on the southern tip
of Florida.30 The Everglades are often referred to as a “river of grass .” The
Everglades have shrunk in recent history due to dredging, pumping, and draining
of the sloughs .
• The western part of the county is known for its soil, often called “black gold.”
This black soil comes from the remnants of the Everglades that were once located
here, consisting of decomposed plants that fell underwater in the Everglades thousands of years ago. It is filled with nutrients and is great for growing crops,
which is why agriculture is a popular economic driver in this area.
• Just offshore are 47 miles of natural coral reefs that run parallel to Palm Beach
County’s coastline. These reefs were created thousands of years ago and are part
of a reef that runs 360 miles from the St. Lucie Inlet to the Dry Tortugas, one of
the largest coral reef ecosystems in the continental U.S. In recent years, the
Palm Beach County government has added to the reef, creating artificial reefs
out of limestone, concrete, and occasionally decommissioned ships to provide habitat for coral, algae, and other marine life, as well as more locations for divers
to see marine life. The County’s Environmental Resources Management
depart ment has deployed over 49 vessels, 110,000 tons of concrete, and 140,000
tons of limestone boulders to create these artificial reefs.
31
Boating in the Everglades
-c anoeing -
everglades- palm -beach- county/
• The Atlantic Ocean makes up the entire eastern flank of Palm Beach County. It is
the second-largest ocean in the world stretching from North and South America
on the west to Europe and Africa on the east. All of our beaches are located along
the shore of the Atlantic Ocean.
• Lake Okeechobee is the largest freshwater lake in the state of Florida. Its name
comes from the Seminole language where “oki” means “water” and “chubi”
means “big .” The lake is 730 square miles in area and is shallow, averaging a
depth of nine feet. It supports a diverse habitat and is home to a variety of
mammals and aquatic life. It is known as a great place for fishing and waterfowl
hunting. Boating is popular on the lake, as well as wildlife siting, camping , and
hiking along the 109- mile Lake Okeechobee Scenic Trail .
• Lake Mangonia is a 540- acre inland lake in the heart of West Palm Beach. Boating
and fishing are popular here. The waters of Lake M angonia travel through a canal
into the main body of Clear Lake, located just south of Lake Mangonia.
• Clear Lake is a 401-acre lake. Hiking and fishing are popular activities .
• Lake Osborne is a well- stocked lake with boat launching ramps and fishing piers ,
located at John Prince Memorial Park. Camping is also available.
• Lake Ida is a 190-acre lake located in Delray Beach. Fishing, jet skiing, and
wakeboarding are available on the lake. Several parks are also located along
its shores.
• The Loxahatchee River is a 7.6 -mile river that has three main forks that form
together before emptying into the Atlantic Ocean near Jupiter. The northwest fork of the river is one of only two federally designated Wild and Scenic Rivers in
Florida. Once the three forks join, t he water becomes part freshwater and part
saltwater as it mixes with the incoming tides of the ocean. Lake Okeechobee

Worth Creek, and Jupiter Sounds. Part of the flow of the St. Lucie and Indian
Rivers diverted to the ocean through the Jupiter Inlet , as well. However, in 1892,
the construction of the St. Lucie Inlet made an artificial cut through the barrier
strip about six miles north of the Jupiter Inlet. The altered hydrodynamics
facilitated the need for management of the Jupiter Inlet to reduce shoaling and
maintain a navigable channel. To achieve this, the inlet was moved approximately 1,250 feet north to its present position beginning in 1913. The project entailed
cutting a channel across the sand barrier, building a new barrier across the natural Southeasterly channel to divert the flow through the new opening, and constructing two jetties. The work was completed nine years later in 1922. Work
has continued on the inlet since this time to maintain transportation channels.
• The Intracoastal Waterway is a shipping route in the U.S. that runs for 3,000
miles along the Atlantic coast and the Gulf of Mexico. As mentioned, it facilitates
transportation by avoiding the sometimes- unpredictable open ocean waters.
• The Lake Worth Lagoon is a critical environmental and recreational asset to
Palm Beach County. Its vital estuarine ecosystem stretch es more than 20 miles
from North Palm Beach to Boynton Beach . It plays a crucial role in supporting our
region’s biodiversity, serving as a habitat for various fish, birds, and marine life,
as well as providing an essential breeding and feeding ground with substantive
mangroves, seagrasses, and oyster reefs. The lagoon also provides significant
economic advantages with plenty of activities for residents and tourists alike.
In Case of Emergency
• Hurricane season runs from June 1 through November 30 and visitors are
advised to follow these steps to stay safe during a hurricane32:
o If ordered to evacuate, leave immediately .
o Follow evacuation routes and do not try to take shortcuts as they may be
blocked.
o If possible, take water, food, a flashlight, a radio, a first aid kit, any
medications, cell phones and chargers, extra cash, family and emergency
Jupiter Inlet
blanket.
o Check with local officials for shelter locations. A free Red Cross Emergency
App is available to download on smart phones from Google Play or the App Store.
o Check for m
ore information prior, during, and
after the storm to help support visitors in the destination.
Our Flora and Fauna
• Sea turtles are commonly seen offshore , the most common being Leatherbacks,
Loggerheads, Green, Kemps Ridley, and Hawksbill. Our beaches lead the nation
in the number of sea turtle nests per mile, producing approximately 2 million
hatchlings per year.33
• Manatees and bottlenose dolphins are also often spotted in our waters,
delighting visitors and residents alike.
• American alligators may be spotted in Palm Beach County. They live in
freshwater and brackish environments. When
they are young, alligators eat fish, insects, snails, crustaceans, and worms. As they get larger, they eat larger prey such as large fish, turtles, muskrats, birds, deer, and other reptiles.
34 Encourage visitors to steer clear of alligators.
• The sand dunes i n the eastern portion of Palm Beach County offer a desert -like
climate and host a plant community called the Sand Pine Scrub. This ecosystem is
home to several endangered species that depend on the Sand Pine Scrub for survival. This includes the Florida Scrub -Jay and the Florida Scrub Lizard . The
Florida Dancing Lady Orchid is also found only in this area.
• Tropical hardwood hammocks are found along both coasts of south Florida and
in the Everglades and Florida Keys. A tropical hardwood hammock is a closed -
canopy forest dominated by a variety of evergreen and semi-deciduous trees and
scrubs that is often higher in elevation from the rest of the land. The hammocks in Palm Beach County are made up mainly of tropical flora originating in the
Manatees

winds, and water currents over a long period of time. Today, there are more than
120 species of tropical plants, 36 of which are listed as endangered or
threatened. Examples include Bahama strongbark, buccaneer palm, Florida
boxwood, and milkbark.35
• Palm trees are often associated with Florida. Only 12 palm trees are native to
the state36, as follows:
o Buccaneer Palm
o Sabal Palm – Florida’s State Tree
o Dwarf Palmetto
o Everglades Palm
o Needle Palm
o Thatch Palm
o Silver Palm
o Royal Palm
o Saw Palmetto
o Miami Palm
o Scrub Palmetto
o Key Thatch
Our Natural Habitats
• Nature preserves and protected , natural areas provide an excellent opportunity
for visitors to experience our unique habitats and local wildlife. The Palm Beach
County Department of Environmental Resources Management manages 35
natural areas encompassing more than 31,000 acres of environmentally sensitive
lands. The following natural areas have public -use facilities, including a small
parking lot, informational kiosks, and hiking trails: Delray Oaks, Frenchman’s
Forest, High Ridge Scrub, Hypoluxo Scrub, Juno Dunes, Jupiter Ridge, Leon M.
Weekes, Ocean Ridge, Rosemary Scrub, Royal Palm Beach Pines, Seacrest Scrub,
Sweetbay, Snook Islands, and Yamato Scrub. For more information on these
natural areas, see discover. .
• Explore the northern portion of the Everglades at Arthur R. Marshall
Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge . Here visitors can explore the “river of
grass” at eye level through sawgrass marshes. It’s a prime area for birding and
wildlife viewing, as well as hiking, photography, hunting, and fishing. Discover It:
Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge – 10216 Lee Rd.,
Boynton Beach, FL, 33473, 561-734- 8303, loxahatcheefriends.com
• The Wellington Environmental Preserve at the Marjory Stoneman Douglas
Everglades Habitat is a 365- acre rainwater storage area with nature trails and
learning centers. Here, visitors can experience Florida’s natural landscape from the paved pedestrian path and boardwalk that leads to seven designated learning
Sabal Palm Tree
dos. -
facts/florida -state -
symbols/state -tree/
wading birds like great blue herons and roseate spoonbills. Six-story observation
towers are located at two of the learning areas. The preserve also includes a
butterfly garden, and a 3.6-mile Equestrian Trail that is an extension of the
approximately 65- mile Wellington Bridle Trail System. Discover It: Wellington
Environmental Preserve – 3491 Flying Cow Ranch Rd., Wellington, FL, 33414,
561-791-4005, -
Environmental -Preserve-Sectio -57
• Grassy Waters Nature Preserve is another remnant of the northern Everglades,
boasting wetlands, tree islands, and forested hammocks. Today, the park is a
habitat for deer, wild boar, sandhill cranes , and more. Discover It: Grassy Waters
Nature Preserve – 8264 Northlake Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33412, 561- 804-
4985, -preserve
• In the 1970s, t he City of Boca Raton took special measures to preserve the five
miles of coastline within its city limit s, while dedicating 20 acres to develop a
hands -on interpretive program that would be beneficial to the environment and
local community. This program eventually became Gumbo Limbo Nature Center ,
which has now grown into a top marine life research and rescue destination for
sea turtle s. Outdoor marine aquariums allow visitors to spot many different types
of tropical fish. Each of the four aquariums represents a different Southeast
Florida marine h abitat. The Nature Center also has a Rehabilitation Facility where
visitors can see rescued sea turtle patients. The hope is that the sea turtles can
be returned to the wild. Florida Atlantic University’s Department of Biological Sciences operates a research facility on site. D uring the summer, sea turtle
hatchlings can be view ed in their gallery. Their baby sea turtle releases are also
open to the public. The campus also includes a boardwalk where visitors can view a Tropical Hardwood Hammock ecosystem. Discover It: Gumbo Limbo Nature
Center – 1801 N. Ocean Blvd., Boca Raton, FL, 33432, 561- 544-8605,
-Limbo-Nature-Center
• Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse Outstanding Natur al Area , a 120- acre preserve, is
one of three Outstanding Natural Areas in the nation. It was established in 2008 by Congress for the preservation, protection, and enhancement of the
Wellington Environmental
Preserve
y/Details/Wellington -Environmental -
Preserve -Sectio -57
preserving its rich history. The site is home to four sensitive habitats, 26 special-
status species, and an archaeological record that dates back over 5,000 years. It is
also the location of the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse. Discover I t: Jupiter Inlet
Lighthouse Outstanding Natural Area – 600 County Hwy 707, Tequesta, FL,
33469, 561-295-5953, - conservation -
lands/eastern -states/jupiter -inlet -lighthouse
• The Hungryland Slough Natural Area includes a variety of flatwoods, swamp, and
hammock ecosystems, in addition to a wet prairie and a depression marsh.
Several trails are available for hiking, biking, and horseback riding, all of which are less than five miles long. Wildlife viewing is popular here, especially in the
wetlands where many birds are found. Discover It: Hungryland Slough Natural
Area – 12385 Seminole Pratt Whitney Rd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33412, 561- 233-
2400, discover. -Slough.aspx
• J.W. Corbett Wildlife Management Area contains 60,330 acres. The Great Florida
Birding and Wildlife Trail runs through the area, as it is home to diverse wildlife
like bobcats, indigo snakes, red -cockaded woodpeckers, sandhill cranes, and a
variety of wading birds. A network of trails, including a boardwalk , wind through
the cypress wetland mak ing it easier to view wildlife. Discover It: J.W. Corbett
Wildlife Management Area – 11835 Seminole Pratt Whitney Rd., West Palm
Beach, FL, 33412, 561- 625-5122,
• Okeeheelee Nature Center offers 2.5 miles of trails winding through 90 acres of
pine flatwoods and wetlands. Highlights include hands -on exhibits, animal
encounters and a nature- related gift shop. Visitors can m arvel at birds of prey,
touch a live snake, or prowl for owls during one of the center’s many programs
scheduled throughout the year for families, youth , and adults. Discover It:
Okeeheelee Nature Center – 7715 Forest Hill Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33413,
561-233-1400, discover. -Center.aspx
• Green Cay Nature Center and Wetlands is a premier destination in Boynton
Beach for nature enthusiasts and wildlife observers. Th es 100-acre wetland
Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse
Outstanding Natural
Area
discover.
Areas/Jupiter -Inlet.aspx
of habitats, including marshes, mangroves, and ponds. Visitors can enjoy close- up
views of native flora and fauna, such as alligators, turtles, herons, and other bird
species, making it a haven for birdwatchers and photographers. Additionally, the
nature center offers educational exhibits, live animal displays, and interactive
programs . Discover It: Green Cay Nature Center and Wetlands – 12800 Hagen
Ranch Road, Boynton Beach, FL , 33437, 561-966-7000,
discover.
• Daggerwing Nature Center features include a 3,000 sq. ft. exhibit hall with live
animals and interactive state- of-the-art exhibits, classroom facilities, laboratory,
art gallery, reading area, butterfly garden, and an elevated boardwalk which
takes you on a relaxing journey through a swamp. Discover It: Daggerwing
Nature Center – South County Regional Park, Boca Raton, FL, 33498, 561 -629-
8760, discover.
• Frenchman’s Forest Natural Area includes 158 acres of protect mangrove, live
oak, slash pine, and cypress habitats. A 1.5 -mile trail runs through the natural
area and includes a boardwalk through a cypress swamp. Several other trails are
also available in the natural area. Discover It: Frenchman’s Forest Natural Area –
12201 Prosperity Farms Rd., Palm Beach Gardens, FL, 33410, 561-233-2400,
discover. -Forest.aspx
• Busch Wildlife Sanctuary is a care
facility for injured animals. The organization rescues sick, injured,
or orphaned native Florida wildlife
and releases those back into the wild that are able to return to their native habitat. Those that can’t be
re-released live at the sanctuary,
with many of them on display for
public viewing . Otters, foxes, bears,
birds, and panthers are just some of the animals that can be seen.
Discover It: Busch Wildlife Sanctuary –
(
See the Attractions
Section, Page 174)
• Manatee Lagoon – An F PL Eco-Discovery Center® is a free attraction with a
dedicated viewing area where visitors can see manatees up close. The 16,000-
square-foot facility includes hands-on exhibits where visitors can learn more about these threatened and unique creatures, as well as the Lake Worth Lagoon.
Manatee season runs from November 15 to March 31. There is no guarantee,
however, that visitors will see manatees during this time, as they are not
contained in the area in any way. Discover It: Manatee Lagoon – An FPL Eco-
Busch Wildlife Sanctuary
Discover The Palm Beaches
Page 174)
• Peaceful Waters Sanctuary is a 30- acre wetlands park with 1,500 feet of elevated
nature boardwalks and one mile of walking trails. The park features an
assortment of displays that represent the variety of animals and plant species native to South Florida. It provides an excellent opportunity for nature photography. Discover It: Peaceful Waters Sanctuary – 11676 Pierson Rd.,
Wellington, FL, 33414, 561-791-4005, -Waters -Sanctuary -56
• Wakodahatchee Wetlands are located on 50 acres, which were previously wastewater utility property. Today, the site features a three-quarter mile
boardwalk that connects open water pond areas and islands. It is part of the
Great Florida Birding Trail and is home to more than 178 species of birds, along
with turtles, rabbits, fish, frogs, and raccoons. Discover It: Wakodahatchee
Wetlands – 13026 Jog Rd., Delray Beach, FL, 33446, 561-493-6000,
discover.
Wakodahatchee Wetlands
Discover the Palm Beaches
From hiking, biking , and fishing to golf, watersports, tennis , and croquet , there’s no
shortage of activities in our destination . The following are just some of the possibilities .
And, for that occasional rainy day, we have indoor activities too.
Our City and County Parks
• P alm Beach County’s Parks and Recreation Department operates 110 parks and
recreation facilities , including two water parks. These facilities cover more than
8,000 acres of land for residents and visitors to explore. Discover It: Palm Beach
County’s Parks and Recreation Department – 2700 6th Avenue South, Lake
Worth, FL , 33461, 561- 966-6600,
• The eastern edge of Jaycee Park consists of a mangrove nature preserve with a
boardwalk feature that overlooks the Intracoastal Waterway where manatees have been known to frequent. Amenities are offered, including bocce courts,
picnic pavilions, a fitness trail, a playground, and a nature preserve. The park also
offers i ntracoastal Waterway access for canoes, kayaks , and paddle boards.
Leashed dogs are allowed. Discover It: Jaycee Park – 2600 S. Federal Highway,
Boynton Beach, FL, 33435, 561-737- 3256,
projects/completed-projects/jaycee -park
• Scott's Place Barrier -Free Playground was made possible by a generous donation
from Wellington residents , Del and Barbara Williamso n, in honor of their son ,
Scott, who passed away at age six . The playground is designed to meet the needs
of both able-bodied and disabled children. Discover It: Scott’s Place Barrier-Free
Playground – 12300 W. Forest Hill Blvd., Wellington, FL, 33414, 561- 791-4000,
- Place -BarrierFree-
Playground-23
Section 10 – Our Outdoor and Indoor Life
Scott’s Place Barrier -Free
Playground
ctory/listing/scotts -place#
150-person seating area, restroom facilities, boat ramp with four launching pads,
boat trailer parking, horseshoe pits, fishing pier , and a one -mile 12-station Heart
Trail. Discover It: Bryant Park – Lake Avenue and Golfview on the Intracoastal
Waterway, Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33460, 561- 533-7363,
-park
• The Burt Aaronson South County Regional Park is the home of the previously
mentioned Daggerwing Nature Center, as well as the Osprey Point Golf Course,
the Sunset Cove Amphitheater, and the Coconut Cove Waterpark. Discover It:
Burt Aaronson South County Regional Park – 11200 Park Access Rd., Boca Raton,
FL, 33498, 561- 966-6611, discover.
Aaronson.aspx
• John Prince Memorial Park offers a wide variety of amenities including biking,
fishing, canoeing, picnic area, campground, and a golf learning center. Discover
It: John Prince Memorial Park – 2700 6th Ave. S., Lake Worth , FL, 33461, 561- 966-
6600, discover.
• Okeeheelee Park is home to a large variety of outdoor activities. The park houses
the Jim Brandon Equestrian Center , public horseback riding area and trails,
mountain bike trails, a golf and disc golf course, a dog park, an exercise course,
and freshwater fishing ; the Okeeheelee Nature Center (See Section 9 – Our
Climate & Natural Assets, Page 130) includes pickleball courts, picnic areas, a
playground, and a competitive water ski course; and the Shark Wake Park
o ffers a water park of inflatables, plus a cable park
where visitors can wakeboard, knee board, water ski, wake skate, and foil board
pulled by an overhead cable. Discover It: Okeeheelee Park – 7715 Forest Hill
Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33413, 561-966- 6600,
discover.
• With a massive, cutting -edge outdoor playground, science explorium, Willow
Theater, nature trails, carousel, baseball and basketball courts, picnic pavilions
and more, Sugar Sand Park is a great location for families. Its’ slogan of “spend
the day and play,” is an apt description of this beautiful 132-acre park. Discover
It: Sugar Sand Park – 300 S. Military Tr., Boca Raton, FL, 33486, 561-347- 3900,
Shark Wake Park
Discover The Palm Beaches
Visitors looking to stroll through beautiful gardens have several options in The Palm
Beaches.
• Experience the essence of Japan in Florida at Morikami Museum and Japanese
Gardens , featuring a 16- acre park of renowned Japanese gardens, world -class
bonsai display, galleries of historical and contemporary Asian art, family activities, signature Japanese festivals, museum store, and lakeside Asian cafe. Discover It:
Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens – 4000 Morikami Park Rd., Delray, FL,
33446, 561-495-0233, morikami.org
• Located in the historic EL Cid Neighborhood is the historic home, intact artist
studio , and gardens of Ann Weaver Norton . Ann married widowed
Ralph Norton, who with his first wife founded the Norton Museum of Art. He had
a studio added onto his historic home when Ann moved in. The home is now
surrounded by the Ann Norton Sculpture Garde ns, which featur e nine monolithic
sculptures , as well as more than 250 rare palm species, cycads , and unusual
tropical s. The gardens are r ecognized as one of the largest public collections in
Florida. Discover It: Ann Norton Sculpture Gardens – ansg.org (
See the
Attractions Section, Page 174)
• W ith a mission to inspire and educate through nature, the 20 acres of Mounts
Botanical Garden of Palm Beach County are a tropical oasis. The garden features
a collection of 25 unique display gardens containing more than 7,000 species of tropical and sub -tropical plants, including Florida natives, exotic and tropical fruit
trees, herbs, palms, roses, cacti , bromeliads , and more. The Garden also includes
exhibits, classes , and an art collection. Discover It: Mounts Botanical Garden of
Palm Beach County – 531 N. Military Trail, West Palm Beach, FL, 33415, 561-233-
1757,
Morikami Museum
Japanese Gardens
Discover The Palm Beaches
• With almost two miles of pristine, stunning beach front , John D. MacArthur
Beach State Park is The Palm Beaches ’ only state park. Visitors will enjoy
swimming, snorkeling, fishing in the Atlantic Ocean, the children’s playground, a
nature trail, the visitors center, or kayaking and canoeing in Lake Worth Lagoon.
Discover It: John D. MacArthur Beach State Park – 10900 State Road 703 ,
North Palm Beach, FL, 33408, 561-624- 6950, macarthurbeach.org
Boatin g/Kayaking/Canoeing
• Speedboats. Sailboats. Party boats. Mega-yachts. The Palm Beaches have them
all and residents are simply crazy about the boating life . With the destination
offering 125 miles of scenic waterways , it is not hard to understand why. From
pleasure cruises to fishing charters to water taxis, visitors haven’t truly seen The
Palm Beaches until they’ve seen it by boat.
• Many visitors to our area arrive by yacht. Yachting is a big industry in The Palm
Beaches. However, if visitors are looking to ride on someone else’s yacht for the
day, they have several options, including: Delray Yacht Cruises
, Lots of Yachts , or
LuxuryDayCharters.com .
• Family-friendly public cruises or private charters can be arranged with PonTiki
, which offer chipping greens, tiki bars, water slides, and
more.
• A sunset cruise with Visit Palm Beach may be just
what the doctor ordered. The company offers catamaran sightseeing and
specialty cruises, as well as tours on kayaks, paddleboards, and bikes. Snorkeling,
fishing, and history and nature tours are also offered.
• T ranquil seas, mangrove tunnels, crystal-clear lagoons —there are countless
places to set out on a scenic paddle in The Palm Beaches. Visitors can k ayak their
John D. MacArthur
Beach State Park
images.trvl -
mages/travelguides/destination/6022
78/John -D-Macarthur-Beach- State -
Park-63015.jpg
Wild & Scenic Loxahatchee River at Jupiter’s Riverbend Park where they may
even share the water with manatees, sea turtles , and alligators! They can bring
their own equipment or visit kayak and canoe outfitters to get geared up. See
-watersports/kayaking -canoeing for
our many rental companies.
Camping & RV Parks
• A variety of campgrounds and RV Parks beckon visitors in The Palm Beaches.
Lion Country Safari KOA o ffers safari
tent glamping , authentic teepees, and event treehouses for
rent. Campers can also bring their own tent or RV and spend the day exploring
the Lion Country drive-through safari .
• O ther camping options include John Prince Park Campground, Peanut Island
Park & Tent Campground, Pahokee Marina and Campground, and the Torry
Island Campground and Marina .
• RV’ers have their pick of South Bay RV Park on the shore of Lake Okeechobee,
West Jupiter RV , Juno Ocean Walk RV Resort, and Vacation Inn
Resort. For more information on all of these campgrounds and RV parks and
resorts, see -to-stay/campgrounds -rv-parks .
Croquet
• West Palm Beach is home to the 10-acre National Croquet Center, the largest
dedicated croquet facility in the world. I ndividuals can reserve court time and
lessons on its manicured lawns . Discover It: National Croquet Center – 700
Florida Mango Rd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33406, 561 -478-2300,
National Croquet Center
Discover The Palm Beaches
• Visitors wanting an up close look at the Everglades in the western part of the
county can book an airboat tour with several companies, including Airboat Rides
West Palm Beach , Mast er Gator Airboat Tours
of Palm Beach County , and A irboat Rides
Boca Raton .
Family Activities
From animal sanctuaries and museums to small-scale theme parks and outdoor
adventures, visitors will find plenty in The Palm Beaches to keep the whole family entertained.
• There is a plethora of ways for families to see and safely interact with animals in
The Palm Beaches:
o Previously mentioned Busch Wildlife Sanctuary (See the Attractions
Section , Page 174) is home to Florida panthers, bobcats, black bears, and
other native wildlife, including furry, feathered, and scaly creatures.
o McCarthy’s Wildlife Sanctuary offers tours that allow visitors to see more
than 200 different animals, including tigers, lions, panthers, jaguars, snakes, lizards, turtles, and bobcats. The only way to see the animals is on a guided tour. Discover It: McCarthy’s Wildlife Sanctuary – 12943 61
st St.,
N., West Palm Beach, FL, 33412, 561-790- 2116,
o Encourage families to see manatees at the previously mentioned Manatee
Lagoon – An FPL Eco -Discovery Center® (See the Attractions Section , Page
174).
o Loggerhead Marinel ife Center is dedicated to the conservation of ocean
ecosystems. The center is free and features a sea turtle hospital, Everglades
Airb oat Tours
Discover The Palm Beaches
get the feel of walking into the ocean , along with other ways to explore
Florida’s many ecosystems , including seagrass beds and coral r eefs. The
Digital Reef exhibit allows visitors to explore Florida’s most prominent
native Atlantic species and to digitally create their own colorful sea
creatures. Discover It: Loggerhead Marinel ife Center – 14200 U.S Hwy 1,
Juno Beach, FL, 33408, 561-627- 8280, marinelife.org
o Lion Country Safari allows visitors to see hundreds of animals from the
comfort of their own vehicles through Florida’s largest drive- through safari
park . There is also a walk-through safari area with a petting zoo, giraffe
feeding experience, amusement rides, gifts shops, and beverage options.
Discover It: Lion Country Safari – ( See the
Attractions Section, Page 174)
o Popular animal exhibits at the Palm Beach Zoo includes the Malayan
tigers exhibit and the Aldabra tortoise exhibit, but the zoo is home to
hundreds of animals and a Lorikeet feeding experience. It’s worth seeing
them all. The Fountain Plaza S plash Pad is also a super -fun activity for
small children. Discover It: Palm Beach Zoo – 1301 Summit Blvd., West
Palm Beach, FL, 33405, 561-547-9453,
o Kids of all ages will enjoy learning about Florida’s marine and freshwater
environments through outdoor and indoor animal encounters at the Sandoway Discovery Center . The center is most famous for its shark,
stingray, and alligator feedings, as well as Southeast Florida’s largest
private shell collection. Discover It: Sandoway Discovery Center – 142 S.
Ocean Blvd., Delray Beach, FL, 33483, 561- 274-7263, sandoway.org
• Parents and their children can challenge themselves to see who will be the first to get to the top of the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse ’s 105 steps. Once there, they’ll
enjoy one of the best views in The Palm Beaches. Visitors can listen to audio
tours on their smartphones via the lighthouse’s app or take a guided tour. The
Sandoway Discovery Center
otos/
/?type=3
Lighthouse Explorers’ Club or Lighthouse Story Time & Crafts for Kids. Children
must be a minimum of 48” tall to climb the lighthouse. Discover It: Jupiter Inlet
Lighthouse & Museum – ( See the Attractions Section,
Page 174)
• C ox Science Center and Aquarium is not your typical science museum. This
attraction features more than 100 hands -on exhibits, a 10,000-gallon fresh - and
saltwater aquarium, a digital planetarium, Conservation Research Station, Florida
Exhibit Hall, and an interactive Everglades E xhibit. Weekend programs, concerts ,
and mini galaxy golf are also available for visitors of all ages. Discover It: Cox
Science Center and Aquarium – ( See the Attractions
Section, Page 174)
• F eaturing more than 150 video games and pinball machines dating as far back as
the 1930s, the Silve rball Retro Arcad e brings a bit of nostalgia to visitors. Evoking
childhood memories for adults while helping to create new memories for
younger generations, the 9,000- square-foot museum offers classic videogames ,
such as Pac -Man, two -floors of pinball machines, arcade games, and even the
original Skee -Ball alleys from New York’s Coney Island – Eldorado Arcade.
Discover It: Silverball Retro Arcade – 19 NE 3rd Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33483,
561-266-3294, -beach/
• Several mini amusement parks are located in The Palm Beaches.
o Popstroke in
Delray Beach is a premier mini-golf
and entertainment venue co-owned by PGA golfer Tiger Woods. The
venue also offers a full -service restaurant, ice cream parlor, and bar.
o D rive Shack in West
Palm Beach has open -air, temperature- controlled bays where visitors
virtually play golf courses from all over the glo be, as well as interactive
games.
o F un Depot in L ake Worth is a great place for go -kart
racing, laser tag, and arcade games.
Silverb all Retro Arcade
Discover The Palm Beaches
o Rapids Water Park in Riviera Beach offers
dozens of water attractions , including a variety of slides, a wave pool, and
a lazy river.
o Cocon ut Cove Waterpark & Recreation Center
in Boca Raton features a
1,000- foot lazy river, two four -story -high water slides, and a children’s
interactive water playground.
o C alypso Bay Waterpark in
Royal Palm Beach also offers two four -story -high water slides, a lazy river,
a children’s interactive water playground, lily pads, and a lap pool with
two diving boards.
o A s previously mentioned, Shark Wake Park is
located in Okeeheelee Park .
• T wo IPIC Movie Theaters ar e located in The Palm Beaches at
Boca Raton’s Mizner Park and in downtown Delray Beach. These theaters offer
large, plush, leather recliners. The concessions menu features a chef-driven
selection of fine , but fun, foods perfect for enjoying with a movie. A wide
selection of wine, bee r, and signature cocktails are also available.
• E scape rooms offer players of all ages the opportunity to work together to find a
way out of a “locked” room by a deadline. There are several to pick from in The Palm Beaches, each with interesting twists and themes, including:
o The Escape SoFlo in Palm Beach Gardens – escapesoflo.com
o Legends of Xscape in West Palm Beach – legendsofxscape.com
o Time Travel Escapes – Escape Rooms Jupiter in Jupiter –
timetravelescapes.com
o West Palm Beach Escape Rooms in West Palm Beach -
westpalmbeachescaperooms.com
• Astro Skate Family Fun Center in.
Greenacres is a great place to take the kids on a rainy day. Another indoor option in that area is Greenacres Bowl .
• For more family activity ideas, see -f un-
kid-friendly -activities -palm -beaches -florida
Fishing
Saltwater or freshwater, inshore or offshore, The Palm Beaches are an angler’s paradise.
• Ocean f ishing is seasonal in our area:
o November through February is the best time to fish for the prized sailfish that is a main draw.
mahi mahi, aka dolphin.
o May to September is the high season for snook . During this time, fishing is
also good for wahoo and blackfin tuna .
o Year-round, snappers and groupers can be caught along the Gulf Stream
waters in reefs and wrecks .
• For freshwater fishing , Lake Okeechobee happens to be Florida’s largest lake and
the second largest body of fresh water in the United States, where anglers can
catch some of the best largemouth bass fishing from the Western perimeter of
Palm Beach County . Peak months are November through June . Also, Lake Ida is
a well-known bass fishing spot . The lake is part of a greater system called the
Osborne- Ida Chain of Lakes, where freshwater seekers can find peacock bass,
largemouth bass, bluegill, and clown knifefish.
• If visitors are looking for suggestions on the best places to fish or the best bait to
use, recommend they step into any bait -and -tackle shop and ask the owners and
employees working there. They have a true pulse on local fishing including what’s
biting and how to best prepare for the day’s adventure.
• Anglers looking for daily tide charts, local bait and tackle shops, locations to
purchase fishing licenses, and fishing regulations, can find a fishing guide that
puts it all in one place at - fishing -guide-
for-palm -beach -county .
• The Palm Beaches have a rich fishing history. West Palm Beach is home to one of
the oldest fishing clubs in the U.S., the West Palm Beach Fishing Clu b. The club
has been around since 1934 and hosts the “World’s Oldest Sailfish Tournament”
at the height of the sailfish season , as well as other tournaments held throughout
the year . The building houses truly amazing fish mounts, trophies, original rods
and reels, and other historical items. For more information, see
westpalmbeachfishingclub.org .
Fishing tournament held by
the West Palm Beach
Fishing Club
ents/kdw -classic/
The Palm Beaches are frequently referred to as Florida’s Golf Capit al® with more than
160 public and private golf courses designed by the greatest architects in the game .
• Dozens of public courses are available in The Palm Beaches , with a great value for
golfers on a budget. A few are listed below:
o T he Park West Palm Beach offers a variety of amenities for golfers of all
ages and skill levels. Featuring a full 18-hole golf course as well as a 9- hold,
par-3 course, the facility emphasizes walking with caddie services
available. Discover It: The Park West Palm Beach – 7301 Georgia Avenue,
West Palm Beach, FL 33405, 561- 530-3810,
o Boca Raton Golf & Racquet Club offers a range of amenities including an
18-hole golf course, a pro shop, a driving range, and putting greens. The
club also features facilities for tennis and racquet sports. Discover It: Boca
Raton Golf & Ra cquet Club – 17751 Boca Club Blvd., Boca Raton, FL 33487,
561-367-7000, -Raton -Golf -Racquet -Club
o The Links at Boynton Beach offers two courses: an 18 -hole par 71
Championship Course and a 9-hole par 30 Executive Course. Discover It:
The Links at Boynton Beach – 8020 Jog Road, Boynton Beach, FL 33472,
561-742-6500, -beach.org
o Osprey Point Golf Course is a 27- hole course that’s received certification
by Audubon International, as part of the Audubon Cooperative Sanctuary
Program for Golf. This was garnered through environmental measures in
its development in 2010, which included the protection of natural habitat, conscious development of the natural surroundings, and use of green -
friendly Seashore Paspalum grass. Discover It: Osprey Point Golf Course –
12551 Glades Rd., Boca Raton, FL, 33498, 561- 482-2868,
Osprey Point
Golf Course
Discover The Palm Beaches
Program for Golf. They are Park Ridge Golf Course in Lake Worth ,
Southwinds Golf Course in Boca Raton , and Okeeheelee Golf Course in
West Palm Beac h.
o Alan C. Alford Red Reef Family Golf Course is a local favorite in Boca
Raton, located between the Atlantic Ocean and Intracoastal Waterway. Designed by Charles Ankrom, its nine holes all boast water views and
range from 54 to 227 yards in length. Discover It: Alan C. Alford Red Reef
Family Golf Course – 1221 N. Ocean Blvd., Boca Raton, FL, 33432, 561- 391-
5014, -C-Alford-Red -Reef -Family -Golf -Cours
o To see more public courses, go to
- activities/golf/public -
golf-courses .
• A variety of private golf courses are also available in The Palm Beaches, but
visitors have to be members or know a member to play most of these. For a list
of some of our most popular private courses, see
- activities/golf/private-golf -
courses .
Hiking & Biking
One of the best ways to experience the beauty of The Palm Beaches is through hiking
and biking on its numerous trails. Bicy clists can pedal past mansions, mangrove forests ,
and sandy beaches. Hikers and walkers will enjoy views of palatial estates and
boardwalks through the Everglades. There are even a few mountain biking trails in The
Palm Beaches!
• Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge (See Section 9 – Our
Climate & Natural Assets, Page 130) offers a 12.5 -mile bicycle trail and 50 miles of
hiking trails , including those previously -mentioned boardwalks through
Everglades swamplands.
• Situated along the glimmering Atlantic, the Juno Dunes Natural Area is a great
choice for an authentic South Florida experience. Divided into three tracts, the
569-acre preserve includes various short, marked loop hiking trails (paved and
sandy) that lead hikers through ancient dunes, tropical hammocks, and sawgrass wetlands. It’s also home to The Palm Beaches’ highest natural point! Discover It:
Juno Dunes Natural Area – 14501 U.S. Hwy 1, Juno Beach, FL 33408, 561-233-
2400, discover. -Dunes.aspx
• With nearly 10 miles of trails winding through pine flatwoods, cypress swamps, oak hammocks, and wet prairies, there’s something for everyone to enjoy on a hike through Riverbend Park . Recommend visitors try the shaded 2.9-mile loop
Discover It: Riverbend Park – 9060 Indiantown Rd., Jupiter, FL, 33478, 561- 741-
1359, discover.
• The Palm Beach Lake Trail runs along the west side of the island of Palm Beach ,
offering views of Lake Worth Lagoon and West Palm Beach. Walkers and bikers will agree that this is one of the most scenic trails in The Palm Beaches , including
walls draped with bougainvillea and ivy. For more information, see
-biking -palm -beach -lake -trail
• Hikers wanting an extreme challenge will want to check out the Ocean to Lake
Trail . This 61- mile trail runs from the Atlantic Ocean at Hobe Sound and ends at
Lake Okeechobee, winding through Jonathan Dickinson State Park and various
natural and wildlife management areas. Hikers will experience various South
Florida ecosystems along the way, including cypress swamps, pine flats, and wet prairies. Those wanting to complete the entire trail will need to backpack. It is
also possible to hike on portions of the trail. For more information, see
• The Jeaga Wildways , including more than 165,000 acres of natural Florida lands ,
are home to more than a dozen activity and education centers. Users can hike,
bike, or horseback ride on these trails. For more information , see
discover. .
• Other popular trails can be found at Grassy Waters , Red Reef , and near West
Palm Beach on the Apoxee Trail 
• The Palm Beaches also offer numerous wheelchair- accessible nature trails ,
including the Cypress Boardwalk Trail, John Prince Park Trail, and at locations like
Okeeheelee Nature Center, Daggerwin g Nature Center, Arthur R. Marshall
Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge, Seacrest Scrub Natural Area, Juno Dunes
Natural Area, and B arrier-Free Park. See the Official Visitor’s Guide for more
information or visit the website at: -
accessible- nature-trails -palm -beaches
• Additional hiking trail descriptions can be found at
-florida- hiking-palm -beaches The Palm Beach Lake Trail
Discover The Palm Beaches
o Okeeheelee Park is home to a 4.1-mile single- track trail for more
intermediate riders, but it does have beginner bypasses.
o Dyer Park offers two single track trails: 4.7 miles and 2.4 miles. The
shorter trail is built on the “Hill,” a previous landfill that was converted
into a natural setting for the trail. The park offers a winding course and is the only location in South Florida with appreciable climbs and descents.
o West Delray Regional Park has a 5- mile single-track trail for intermediate
riders.
For more information on several of the above trails, see
discover.
Other trails are featured at -b each -county -
40098/ .
Horseback Riding
• Wellington is the place for horseback riders and horse lovers.
• Home to an international equestrian community, Wellington features more than
57 miles of trails for horseback riding . This elaborate trail system provides
residents the opportunit y for recreation, exercise, and transportation throughout
the community. For a map of these trails , visit:
experience.
• During the Winter Equestrian Festival in Wellington (See Section 11 – Our Sports,
Page 159), public riding lessons and trail rides are available .
• As previously mentioned, the Wellington Environmental Preserve has a 3.6 -mile
Equestrian Trail that is an extension of the Wellington trail system.
• Equestrians can also enjoy more than nine miles of equestrian trails in
Okeeheelee Park .
West Delray Regional Park
single -track trail
787205
• There are also several places to go on guided horseback riding tours .
Dream Believer Stables and Polo La Picaza
b oth offer horseback riding in Wellington. Pink Flaming o
Stables and J ust Horsin’ Around
in Lake Worth, and Johnson’s Folly
Horse Farm in Delray Beach are just some of the other
operators that offer horseback riding throughout the county.
Pet-Friendly Activities
All throughout The Palm Beaches , there are opportunities for visitors to get outside with
their pets. For more information on all of the options below, see
-friendly -palm -beaches/pet -friendly-things -do.
• Several dog parks are run by the county . For information on the following, see
discover. -Parks.aspx u nless otherwise noted :
o Lake Woof Dog Park in John Prince Park
o Canine Cove Park in Burt Aaronson South County Regional Park
o Dog Park at Lake Ida
o Pooch Pine s in Okeeheelee Park
o Cinquez Park also has separate dog parks for small and large dogs –
-Park -68
• Several of our shopping areas are dog -friendly, including Worth Avenue, The
Royal Poinciana Plaza, Downtown Palm Beach Gardens, and Atlantic Avenue.
• When it’s time to refuel, many restaurants allow pets, including Boston’s on the
Beach, Darbster, Proper Grit, and Deck 84 . Horseback riding in
Okeeheelee Park
pbcparks.
6/nine- miles-of -equestrian -trails -
officially -open- in-okeeheelee -park/
Jupiter Dog Beach is a 2.5 -mile stretch of beach allocated specifically for dogs. It
is the only free dog beach in The Palm Beaches where you and your canine can
enjoy the sand any time of day . Bark Park Dog Beach , located at Spanish River
Park, allows dogs to mingle in the sand during designated hours, between towers
18 and 20. To use Bark Park Beach, you need to purchase a permit for the dogs
to freely roam the beach. Resident permits are $31 per dog. Non -resident
permits are $167 per dog. For more information on these beaches, see
-friendly -palm -beaches/dog -beaches
Scuba Diving & Snorkeling
• Part of the only living barrier coral reef systems in the continental U.S. lies just
beyond our 47 -mile coastline. Thanks to the area’s proximity to the Gulf Stream,
you will find a diverse range of sea life. The coral reef system contains lush coral and limestone formations, as well as fascinating marine creatures from tiny
seahorses to giant goliath grouper .
• Top snorkeling spots offer a variety of experiences that are included in the
following parks :
o Blue Heron Bridge and the underwater Snorkel Trail at Phil Foster Park,
o John D. MacArthur Beach State Park
o Peanut Island
o Red Reef Park
o Coral Cove Park
• The Palm Beaches also boast multiple shipwrecks that lie just off the coast, many
of which were sunk to create sustainable marine habitats. Sharks, goliath groupers, and other jumbo -sized beasts gather at wrecks , such as the Ana Cecilia,
the Sea Emperor, the United Caribbean, and the Noulla Express.
Jupiter Dog Beach
-on-t he-
Beach
• See -watersports/diving-snorkeling
for dive shops and tour operators.
Tennis & Pickleball
• Tennis and Pickleball are popular ways to spend a sunny day in The Palm Beaches.
With a wide variety of locations to play, from county and city parks to some of our
finest hotels and resorts, there are many options for visitors.
• Palm Beach County has numerous public tennis and pickleball courts located
throughout the county. For court locations, go to:
discover. .
• The City of Palm Beach Gardens also has an award winning facility for both tennis
and pickleball. For more information, go to:
-Pickleball-Center
• For additional ideas on where to play, go to:
-activities/tennis
• For those who prefer to watch the pros compete, be sure to check out the Delray
Beach Open held each February. .
Delray Beach Open
th.
Sob9XK4hXbqg7HQAAAA?rs=1&
pid=ImgDetMain Scuba divers at Sea
Emperor will find a
variety of fish and
shipwreck .
ve-sites/wreck -dive- sites/sea -
emperor/
• The Therapeutic Recreation Complex , adjacent to John Prince Park in Lake
Worth, is a community center offering arts and sports programs for people with
disabilities . Activities include pickleball, adaptive swim lessons, sailing, and scuba
diving. Discover It: Therapeutic Recreation Complex – 2728 Lake Worth Rd., Lake
Worth, FL, 33461, 561- 966-7015, discover. -
Recreation.aspx
Water Sports and Beaches
• The Palm Beaches are a great place to jet ski, sail, surf, kiteboard, water ski, and
windsurf .
• Juno Beach is a popular spot for surfers and kiteboarders .
• Jet skiers head to Lake Worth Lagoon , where they race past views of the
downtown West Palm Beach skyline, sprawling Palm Beach estates, and the
famous Mar -A-Lago. There’s also the opportunity to see mangrove islands, home
to nesting birds, oyster beds , and manatees.
• Paddle boarding at Peanut Island is a captivating adventure that promises both
tranquility and excitement. Nestled within the pristine waters of the Intracoastal
Waterway, this idyllic island offers a perfect backdrop for paddlers of all levels. As
paddleboarders glide along the calm, crystal-clear waters, they’ll have the chance
to marvel at the diverse marine life below, including colorful fish and the famous Florida manatees. Paddle boarding is also available all along the coast of The
Palm Beaches.
• Sailors will enjoy a sail from Riviera Beach to Peanut Island . Didn’t pack a
sailboat? Visitors can s top at Get Wet Watersports to
rent a boat and other watersports equipment.
Paddle boarding at
Peanut Island
Discover The Palm Beaches
• Many visitors want to keep up with their fitness routines when they travel, with
most hotels having fitness equipment available to their guests.
• Some athletic clubs in the area offer day or week passes to out-of -town visitors.
• YMCAs are another good option for yoga and Pilates classes and have great
workout facilities. Visiting members from out of state YMCAs get three free visits a year or in- state members can purchase a daily Visiting Member Pass. There are
two YMCAs in The Palm Beaches , one in Lake Worth that has a wellness center
and an aquatic center. Other locations are Palm Beach Gardens , Boynton Beach
and Boca Raton.
Discover It :
- YMCA of t he Palm Beaches Lake Worth Wellness Center – 4200 S. Congress
Ave., Lake Worth, FL, 33461,
- YMCA of the Palm Beaches Lake Worth Aquatic Center – 2728 Lake Worth Rd.,
Lake Worth, FL, 33461,
- YMCA of the Palm Beaches Wellness Center at Palm Beach Gardens – 3160
PGA Blvd., Palm Beach Gardens, FL, 33410,
- DeVos-Blum Family YMCA of Boynton Beach - 9600 S. Military Trail, Boynton
Beach, FL 33436
- Peter Blum Family YMCA of Boca Raton - 6631 Palmetto Circle S., Boca Raton,
FL 33433
• There are several places for unique yoga experiences including :
o Twilight at the Light
o Mindful Moments Adult Yoga
o Goat Yoga
o Paddle Board Yoga
• For additional ideas on where to practice yoga, visit The Palm Beaches website:
new -twist-yoga-palm -beaches
Paddle Board Yoga
-
Sports
Below is an overview of our local sports teams and where they play, along with some of
our larger sporting events and our sports history museum.
Professional Sports
• GOLF: There are several opportunities to see professional golfers tee it up in
The Palm Beaches:
o The Cognizant Classic in The Palm Beaches (formerly known as the Honda
Classic) is played on the Champion Course at PGA National Resort in Palm
Beach Gardens , each winter . For more information, see
thecognizantclassic.com .
o The inaugural James Hardie
TM Pro Football Hall of Fame Invitational is
played in April at Broken Sound in Boca Raton. Seventy -eight PGA Tour
Champions players will compete alongside t wenty -six professional
football players who will play alongside the golf pros on Friday and
Saturday of the event. To learn more, see -
champions/article/news/latest/2024/01/23/james -hardie-teams-up -with -
the-pro -football-hall-of-fame -to-create -innovative-new -pga-tour -
champions -event -debuting-in -2025
Section 1 1 – Our Sports
Cognizant Classic in
The Palm Beaches
Discover The Palm Beaches
Stadium and Tennis Center . This event is a combination of the All-Tennis
Professionals 250 and ATP Champions Tour that regularly sees an
attendance of 60,000 people. In addition to the professional tennis tournament,
live music, corporate events, amateur tennis tournaments, and other social
events are also part of this event. For more information and tickets, see
• SOCCER: The United Soccer League announced in late 2023 that an
expansion men’s and women’s soccer team would be coming to Palm Beach
County by late 2025. The men’s team will play in the USL Championship league,
and the women’s team will play in the Super League, both the highest divisions
in the USL . To learn more, see
exp
ansion -
pro-soccer-teams-for-palm -beach -county/71909254007/
• BASEBALL: Attending Spring Training is a popular pastime in The Palm Beaches,
and we have several options to choose from:
o Throughout March, t he St. Louis Cardinals and the Miami Marlins hold
their Spring Training games at Roger Dean Chevrolet Stadium , in Jupiter.
From April to Early September, t heir affiliated minor league teams also
play at the stadium: the Palm Beach Cardinals and the Jupiter
Hammerheads . See for s chedules
for all of these teams.
o T he Washington Nationals and the Houston Astros hold their Spring
Training games at CACTI Park of T he Palm Beaches , in West Palm Beach ,
which was built specifically for the Nationals . To learn more, see
ballparkpalmbeaches.com .
Delray Beach Open
Discover The Palm Beaches
• T he Florida Atlantic University Owls compete in a variety of sports, including
men’s baseball, football, golf, and tennis and women’s beach volleyball, softball,
and volleyball. FAU, which is home to The Boca Bowl ,
offers both men’s and women’s basketball, cross country, and swimming and
diving. For more information and schedules, see .
• The Palm Beach Atlantic University Sailfish compete in men’s and women’s
lacrosse, basketball, track, soccer, tennis, track, cross country, and golf. In
addition, Sailfish teams also compete in women’s volley ball and beach volleyball.
To learn more, see pbasailfish.com .
• Nova Southeastern University Sharks compete in men’s and women’s basketball,
track, cross country, golf, soccer, swimming, and lacrosse. They also have several
other men’s and women’s sports. For more information and schedules, see
nsusharks.com .
• Keiser University West Palm Beach Seahawks host a variety of NAIA athletic
teams, club sports, and intramurals. For m ore information, see
flagship. .
• Lynn University Fighting Knights compete in a variety of men’s and women’s
sports, including basketball, golf, lacrosse, and t ennis. They also offer a variety of
sports specifically for female and male teams. For more information, see
lynnfightingknights.com .
• Palm Beach State College Panthers compete in men’s baseball and basketball, as
well as women’s basketball, beach volleyball, and volleyball. For more
information and schedules, see .
Howard Schnellenberger Field
at FAU Stadium
• Each January through April, the world’s premier polo players and polo
enthusiasts head to The Palm Beaches for top -level competition , during the Palm
Beach International Polo Season . Located in Wellington, the National Polo
Center presents weekly and often daily events. Discover It: National Polo Center
– 3667 120th Ave. S., Wellington, FL, 33414, 561-204- 5687,
• The International Gay Polo Tournament is held each spring by the Gay Polo
League . This tournament draws top GPL players and avid spectators from
around the globe for a weekend of play at the Patagones Polo Club in
Wellington. Mixing one-part serious competition and one -part lighthearted
party , this event is all about sharing a love for adventure, fun, and the challenging
sport of polo. Created to generate awareness and to move the needle forward
for LGBTQ + athletes, the event works to ensure athletes not only have the same
opportunities, but also a safe place to learn, grow, and excel in their sport.
Discover I t: International Gay Polo Tournament – Patagones Polo Club, 4659
120
th Ave., S., Wellington, FL, 323-712-3514,
• Also in the Spring, t he Winter Equestrian Festival is held at Wellington
International . Spectators and visitors can watch world -class show jumping, enjoy
shopping , and dine at our venue, from January through March. General
admission is free Wednesday through Sunday . The most exciting event of the
season is the Saturday Night Lights event. The jumping starts at 7:00 pm on
Saturdays, but doors open before the competition for family fun . A carousel, face
painting and a petting zoo are just a few of the highlights. Admission is free to
Saturday Night Lights , however, there is a charge for self-parking. Discover It:
Winter Equestrian Festival – 340 Equestrian Club Dr., Wellington, FL, 33414, 561-
793-5867, wellingtoninternational.com
Palm Beach International
Polo Season
ational -polo -club- palm -
beach/22604/
prized polo memorabilia to its growing Hall of Fame, this museum celebrates the
sport of polo and American polo history. With exhibits such as The Mallet, Best
Playing Ponies, and The History of Polo, visitors will enjoy learning more about
the sport and its history. Discover It: Museum of Polo and Hall of Fame – 9011
Lake Worth Rd., Lake Worth, FL, 33467, 561- 969, 3210,
Rodeo
• The Arrigo Extreme Rodeo is held at the South Florida Fairgrounds in West Palm
Beach. The rodeo includes bronc and barrel riding. Discover It: Arrigo Extreme
Rodeo – South Florida Fairgrounds, 9067 Southern Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL,
33411, 205-790-3452,
Marathons & Extreme Competitions
• The Garden of Life Palm Beach es Marathon is held each December in West Palm
Beach . It includes a 5K and a 10K race , in addition to a half marathon and a full
marathon. Discover It: Garden of Life Palm Beaches Marathon –
gardenoflifemarathon.com
• The Picnic Island Ultra is held in Jupiter’s Riverbend Park. Runners have the
option of running a loop for 10 hours or 6 hours to see how many loops they
can complete in that time. Relay teams may also compete in the 6-hour race. The
competition also includes a half marathon and a 10K race. Discover It: Picnic
Island Ultra – -island -ultra.html
• The Hungryland 100 was held for the first time in March 2024 in the Hungryland
Slough Natural Area in West Palm Beach . Participants run 100 miles on a 20-mile
loop through the natural area. The event also includes a 40- mile and a 20-mile
race . Cutoff times are implemented for each race. Discover It: Hungryland 100 –
Garden of Life Palm
Beaches Marathon
ports/2023/12/02/registration -
still-open- for-garden- of-life-palm -
beaches -marathon/71780797007/
• Sports fans who want to learn more about sports history will want to visit the
Avron B. Fogelman Sports History Museum at Florida Atlantic University . The
museum’s collection was donated by former Kansas City Royals owner and longtime Boca Raton resident, Avron B. Fogelman . It is considered one of the
largest private sports libraries collected by an individual.
• The museum covers the progression of American sports and exhibits and includes
a variety of memorabilia, including:
o Babe Ruth’s pinstripe uniform pants worn on his first day
as a New York Yankee
o The 13 original rules of basketball by James Naismith
o Hank Aaron’s uniform worn in 1974, when he broke
the career home run record
o 1985 Kansas City Royals World Series Trophy
o The last cleats worn by football great Jim Thorpe
Discover It: Avron B. Fogelman Sports History Museum – 777 Glades Rd., Boca
Raton, FL, 33431, 561- 297-2661,
museum/
Avron B. Fogelman
Sports History Museum
n-sports -museum/gallery/
Florida State Facts
o Florida became the 27th state on March 3, 1845.
o FLAG: Today’s flag features the state seal in front of a large red “X.” This
was added at the suggestion of Governor Francis P. Fleming so that the
banner did not appear to be a white flag of truce or surrender when it was
hanging still on a flagpole.37
o SEAL: The state seal was adopted in 1868 and was last revised in 1985. It
features a Seminole woman scattering flowers by a shore and a sabal palm
in the foreground , with a steamboat in front of a sun on the horizon in the
background . The state motto, In God We Trust , is located in the bottom of
the band around the outside.
Florida State Trivia
• State Motto – In God We Trust
• State Nickname – The Sunshine State
• State Son g – Old Folks at Home
• State Flowe r – Orange Blossom
• State Bir d – Mockingbird
• State Tree – Sabal Palm
• State Reptile – American Alligator
• State Anim al – Florida Panther
• State Butterfly – Zebra Longwing
• State Marine Mammal – Manatee
Section 1 2 – Our State of Florida
• State Saltwater Fish – Sailfish
• State Freshwater Fish – Largemouth Bass
• State Beverage – Orange Juice
• State Shell – Horse Conch
Major Florida Places of Interest
Visitors may ask about popular sites in our state about which they have heard. The
following will give you information on major places of interest to help answer their questions. For more information on the following Florida places of interest, visit the
state tourism website: .
Fort Lauderdale
• Fort Lauderdale – – i
s located approximately 30
minutes south of Boca Raton and is known for gondola rides along its canals ,
shopping on Las Olas Boulevard , beautiful beaches, historic districts, and
Millionaires Row with its mansions and yachts.
• T he Fort Lauderdale Riverwalk leads to the Riverwalk Arts & Entertainment
District, which includes the Broward Center for the Performing Arts.
• A variety of museums are also located here, including History Fort Lauderdale,
The Museum of Discover y & Science, and the Coral Spring Museum of Art. The
Downtown Hollywood Mural Project is also a draw for art enthusiasts.
• The Brightline high -speed rail – – p rovides quick
transportation to and from The Palm Beaches. (See Section 6 – Our
Transportation, Page 97)
Fort Lauderdale
-to-
do/?gad_source=1&gclid=CjwKCAiAxaCv
BhBaEiwAvsLmWBMpJy5s6L6VfzqBKn -
G1cBOuapdLVUidAk_UzXX9bmwqexKE0z
cZBoCSzYQAvD_BwE
Miami
• Located approximately 45 minutes south of Boca Raton, Miami – – is
one of Florida’s most popular vacation spots ,
known for its trendy nightlife of South Beach and the vibrant Calle Ocho of Little
Havana . Miami boasts many Latin -inspired restaurants, bakeries, fruit stands,
rum bars, cigar shops, and more.
• T hose looking for interesting architecture will find it in the Art Deco Historic
District and the Coral Gables District . Family -owned shops in Coconut Grove
offer visitors a variety of unique shopping options .
• Sports fans will enjoy the city’s professional football, baseball, and basketball , as
well as auto racing, golf, and tennis . Anglers will enjoy the many deep -sea
fishing opportunities. Events include boat shows, festivals, and outdoor food
and wine events .
• The Brightline high -speed rail p rovides quick
transportation to and from The Palm Beaches. ( See Section 6 – Our
Transportation, Page 97)
Or
lando
• Orlando is renowned for its world -class entertainment, theme parks, and
vibrant cultural scene including Walt Disney World Resort, Universal Orlando
Resort, SeaWorld, and International Drive.
• The city offers a wide array of dining options from fine dining to casual, as well as nature and outdoor activities such as parks, lakes, and gardens where visitors
can enjoy hiking, kayaking, and even hot air balloon rides.
• The Brightline high -speed rail provides quick
transportation to and from The Palm Beaches. (See Section 6 – Our
Transportation, Page 97)
• Vi sit f or more information.
Key West
• Key West – -keys.com – is
the only living coral barrier reef in the
continental U.S. and is a popular destination for it s water activities , such as
snorkeling, diving, and sailing .
• Dis cover Duval Street , the bustling heart of Key West's nightlife , lined with lively
bars, restaurants, and shops.
• For history buffs, visit the Ernest Hemingway Home and Museum and for sunset
lovers, join locals and tourists to experience the daily Sunset Celebration at
Mallory Square accompanied by street performers, food vendors, and artists.
Fort Myers
• Located about 2.5 hours west of West Palm Beach , Fort Myers is nestled along
the west coast of Florida and is a great destination to explore beaches, nature
preserves, and wild waterways . Visit f or more
information.
• Fis hing in the Gulf of Mexico is a popular activity , and its proximity to several gulf
islands, including Sanibel and Captiva, make the city a great starting point for island hopping .
• Sports enthusiasts will want to catch spring training games of the Boston Red
Sox and the Minnesota Twins. A variety of shopping options are also available at the massive Gulf Coast Town Center , and Fort Myers’ museums highlight the
city’s history and culture.
Tampa/St. Pete
• The Tampa/St. Pete area is home to some of Florida's most stunning beaches,
including Clearwater Beach and St. Pete Beach , known for their soft white sand
and clear, calm waters . Visitors can explore the scenic Tampa Riverwalk , enjoy
boating and fishing in Tampa Bay, or visit the beautiful parks and nature reserves
such as Fort De Soto Park . Visit an
d
f or more information.
• The region boasts a thriving arts scene with numerous museums, galleries, and
theaters. The Dali Museum in St. Petersburg and the Tampa Museum of Art are
notable attractions. Additionally, the area hosts various cultural festivals and events throughout the year .
• Tampa’s dining and nightlife includes seafood restaurants along the coast to
eclectic eateries and breweries in the city, and a vibrant nightlife with numerous
bars, clubs, and live music venues .
St. Pete Beach
th.
oXwM8YLTDjdgAAAA?rs=1&pid=I
mgDetMain
• Naples is located on the Gulf of Mexico in Southwest Florida and offers a blend of
natural beauty, cultural attractions, and recreational activities . The area is
renowned for its beautiful beaches, ideal for sunbathing, swimming, and
watching stunning sunsets over the Gulf of Mexico .
• Explore Naples Pier, an historic landmark, world -class arts and cultural venues
along Fifth Avenue South and Third Street , as well as outdoor adventures
including the Everglades, Ten Thousand Islands Wildlife Refuge, the Naples Zoo
at Caribbean Gardens and Naples Botanical Garden.
• For more information visit .
St. Augustine
• St. Augustine offers visitors a unique blend of history, culture, cuisine, and attractions . Historical highlights include Castillo de San Marcos , the oldest
masonry fort in the continental U.S., Fountain of Youth Archaeological Park for a
blend of history and entertainment, and St. Augustine Lighthouse and Maritime
Museum full of maritime history and shipwrecks.
• St. George Street is a pedestrian -only street filled with shops, restaurants, and
historical sites. Visit f
or more information.
Cool Trivia
It’s been said that trivia is not useless information…
it’s knowledge waiting for a home !
• In 1867, due to the absence of roads, a mail carrier walked barefoot along the
beaches to deliver mail from Jupiter to Miami, earning the nickname "beach walker." This route, known as the "Barefoot Route," was suspended after two
years for unknown reasons. In 1884, the United States Postal Service revived the
136-mile route from Palm Beach to Miami due to increased population. Mail carriers, now called "Barefoot Mailmen," walked the beaches and used boats for a 28-mile segment, completing the round trip in six days. The term "Barefoot
Mailman" emerged around 50 years later when a rock road was completed in
1893.
• Several African American artists known as the Highwaymen painted and sold
their works featuring Florida’s natural landscapes along the Atlantic coast from the 1950s to the 1970s. Known for their speed, resourcefulness, and creativity,
they employed quick strokes that contributed to an impressionistic style, allowing
them to produce multiple paintings daily, which they sold for around $25 each.
Despite lacking professional training , they supported themselves through their
art during and after segregation, producing over 200,000 paintings that were in high demand.
• In 1961, the U.S. government built a bunker for President Kennedy on Peanut
Island . The bunker was located minutes away from the Kennedy’s Palm Beach
home , known as the “Winter White House .” During this time in the Cold War,
relations with the Soviet Union were very much on edge, and the bunker was
built quickly and quietly to protect the president should war break out.
Section 1 3 – ‘Cool’ Palm Beaches Trivia
Barefoot Mailman
-barefoot -mailman/
Palm Beach, found a Venezuelan cargo ship lodged beside her swimming pool
after it broke loose during a storm and crashed through her sea wall. Famous for
her reaction, she invited neighbors like the Pulitzers for a party with the ship's
crew, serving finger sandwiches, caviar, and champagne. She continued to feed
the crew until they could return to Venezuela. The incident made Wilmot an overnight celebrity as news media and curious onlookers flocked to the scene.
• The first modern -day IBM personal computer was secretly developed in Boca
Raton under the name “Project Acorn.” Twelve engineers worked to design and
build the new computer, renamed the IBM PC. The “PC” stood for “personal
compute r,” with IBM responsible for populating the term. The computer won
Time Magazine’s “Machine of the Year” Award in 1983.
• Palm Beach has strong ties to more than 50 billionaires, including Tom Ford and some members of the Koch Family.
38 Palm Beach County is home to 18 of the
state’s 42 wealthiest people according to Forbes.39
• Disney World © was almost built in Palm Beach Gardens. In 1959, Walt Disney
met with John MacArthur about building the theme park on 320 acres of land along PGA Boulevard . The two agreed t o the deal with a handshake. But Walt’s
brother, Roy , wanted to negotiate for more land, which killed the deal.
Mollie Wilmot with the boat
that crashed into her sea wall
pinion/2017/04/03/our -family -linked- to-
removal/9663954007/
B. EXERCISE : Knowing the ‘Core ’ Attractions
Visitors will ask you about EVERYTHING!
The most frequented attractions in our area are listed on the following pages. It is
important to get to know these very well, as they are often asked about by visitors. Visit
as many as you can to gain first -hand experience.
Learn about them.
Know where they are.
Know how to direct people to them.
TOURIST TIPS: This comprehensive list of attractions also shows Tourist Tips that may be
of interest to visitors or an interesting factoid to make their visit more memorable. Even
though you may have visited these sites, look at the Tourist Tips carefully as they
provide valuable information.
IMPORTANT – POINT -EARNING ATTRACTIONS: This list also represents the Qualifying
Attractions , or those for which you will receive points for visiting.
USE THE INDEX : To help serve visitors, the listings are also included in the Quick
Reference Guide & Index in the back of this document , complete with address, phone
and website URL for each.
Knowing the ‘Core’ Attractions
“We’re driving north, where can we stop along the way?”
Visitors often need directions and may ask you where these cities/towns are, which
underscores the importance of your being familiar with their geographic location .
STEP ONE:
Note: If you do not have the print or digital Official Visitors Guide, please contact
Discover The Palm Beaches immediately or access it online.
Refer to the map in the Official Visitors Guide , supplied with these learning materials.
Use the map and the KEY below to identify the geographic location of area attractions.
You’ll w rite your answers on the pages that follow, as to whether these are North,
South, etc.
GEOGRAPHIC KEY
North
Jupiter/Juno Beach, Palm Beach Gardens,
Lake Park, Riviera Beach
Central
West Palm Beach, Palm Beach,
Royal Palm Beach, Greenacres ,
Wellington, Lake Worth Beach
South
Boynton Beach, Delray Beach, Boca Raton
The Glades
Lake Okeechobee, Belle Glade,
Pahokee, South Bay
STEP TWO :
The attractions listed are the most-
frequented attractions, in alphabetical
order. Be sure to READ EACH ITEM, as it may contain new information.
NOTE: Accessibility and
Hours of Operation
Most, but not all, attractions and
historic sites are accessible. And attraction hours may vary from
their published open times.
ALWAYS call first
before sending visitors!
INSTRUCTIONS: On the blank line below the name of the attraction, write where
each attraction is located. Specify the exact geographic area of The Palm Beaches, such
as “Nort h”, “South ,” etc. from the GEOGRAPHIC KEY on the previous page.
ANN NORTON SCULPTURE GARDENS – 253 Barcelona Rd., West Palm Beach,
FL, 33401, ansg.org
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Tourist Tips:
1. This historic home includes an intact artist studio and gardens of Ann Weaver Norton. Changing art exhibits are staged in the home. The gardens include
nine of Ann’s monolithic sculptures , as well as more than 250 rare palm
species and unusual tropicals.
2. Concerts, lectures, story times, and special events are also held in the gardens
throughout the year.
BOCA RATON MUSEUM OF ART – 501 Plaza Real, Boca Raton, FL, 33432,
bocamuseum.org
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Tourist Tips:
1. As previously mentioned, t he Boca Raton Museum of Art has obtained
international recognition for its dynamic changing exhibitions and
distinguished permanent collection. The Museum’s permanent collection
focuses on drawings, paintings, photographs, sculpture, African Art, studio
glass, and ceramics. Changing exhibits are mainly international in scope, while reflecting the artistic expression of the region and city. The Museum of Art’s public programs include artist presentations, family activities, and more than
100 classes per week at its studio Art School.
2. The museum is closed on Mondays and Tuesdays. Souvenirs, art, home décor,
and jewelry can be purchased in the Museum Store.
four nearby parking garages. The closest is garage A, located on the northwest
corner of Mizner Park, just south of the museum. Handicapped parking is
available in specially -designated spaces located along the plaza and parking
garages within Mizner Park.
BUSCH WILDLIFE SANCTUARY – 17855 Rocky Pines Rd., Jupiter, FL, 33478, 561-
575-3399,
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Tourist Tips:
1. The Busch Wildlife Sanctuary rescues sick, injured, or orphaned native Florida
wildlife and releases those back into the wild that are able to return to their native habitat. Those that can’t be re- released live at the sanctuary . Many of
them are on display for the public to see. Otters, foxes, bears, birds, and
panthers are just some of the animals that have been rescued.
2. Admission is by donation only.
COX SCIENCE CENTER & AQUARIUM – 4810 Dreher Trail N., West Palm Beach,
FL, 33405, 561- 832-1988,
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Tourist Tips:
1. This attraction features more than 100 hands -on exhibits, a 10,000-gallon
fresh - and saltwater aquarium, a digital planetarium, Conservation Research
Station, Florida Exhibit Hall, and an interactive Everglades e xhibit. Weekend
programs, concerts , and mini galaxy golf are also available for visitors of all
ages.
2. Shows in the planetarium are an additional fee. The planetarium’s show
schedule is available on the website.
science-center-and -aquarium
FLAGLER MUSEUM – 1 Whitehall Way, Palm Beach, FL, 33480, 561- 655-2833,
flaglermuseum.us
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
1. The Henry Morrison Flagler Museum is the home of the man who is famous
for building the first resorts in Palm Beach. A tour of the home allows visitors
to see the home as it would have been during Flagler ’s residency. The first
and second floors are available to the public. These include the bedroom of
Henry and his wife Mary, guest bedrooms, the library, the music room, the
breakfast room, the drawing room, and the dining room. Visitors may also
visit the Flagler Kenan Pavilion, which houses Flagler’s Railcar No. 91, as well as the grounds around the estate.
2. Audio tour wands are included in admissio n, as are self-guide tour brochures.
Docent -led tours of the first floor are offered on specific days of the week.
Check the website for a schedule.
JUPITER INLET LIGHTHOUSE & MUSEUM – 500 Captain Armour’s Way, Jupiter,
FL, 33469, 561- 747-8380,
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Tourist Tips:
1. Admission to the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse & Museum includes access to the
grounds around the lighthouse, as well as the opportunity to climb the 150
steps to the top for amazing views. Visitors can listen to audio tours on their smartphones via the lighthouse’s app or take a guided tour. Suggest they plan on spending 2 to 3 hours at the lighthouse, if they want to explore the site
and its trails.
2. Everyone must be able to climb the lighthouse steps on their own and may not be carried up. Children must be a minimum of 48” tall to climb the lighthouse. Visitors may not wear high -heels or sports cleats and may not
climb the lighthouse bare-footed.
3. Bags of any kind are not allowed, and neither are selfie sticks or tripods.
4. The lighthouse museum also offers several programs for kids and families,
such as the Lighthouse Explorers’ Club or Lighthouse Story Time & Crafts for Kids.
5. Guided tours of the lighthouse are also available, on certain days of the week.
See the website for the schedule.
ticket -prices -directions -include-special-
notices/
LION COUNT RY SAFARI – 2003 Lion Count ry Safari Road, West Palm Beach, FL,
33470, 561-793-1084.
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Tourist Tips:
1. Situated on 300 acres of natural area and home to hundreds of animals, the
Lion Country Safari is fun for the whole family.
2. Plan on staying the entire day to experience it all – the walk -through zoo,
water park, splash pad, and feed the animals.
3. Get there early when the animals are most active.
4. You can bring your own food . There are a few places to purchase food , as
well.
5. If you don’t want to drive your own car through the safari, trams are available
to rent.
MANATEE LAGOON – AN FPL ECO -DISCOVERY CENTER® – 6000 N. Flagler
Dr., West Palm Beach, FL, 33407, 561- MANATEE ,
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Tourist Tips:
1. Manatee Lagoon is a free attraction with a dedicated viewing area where visitors can see manatees up close. The 16,000-square- foot facility includes
hands -on exhibits where visitors can learn more about these threatened and
unique creatures and the Lake Worth Lagoon , as well.
2. Manatee season runs from November 15 to March 31. There is no guarantee, however, that visitors will see manatees during this time, as they are not contained in the area in any way.
3. No pets are allowed on property and feeding the wildlife is prohibited.
NORTON MUSEUM OF ART – 1450 S. Dixie Hwy, West Palm Beach, FL, 33401,
561-832-5196,
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Touri st Tips:
1. The museum is internationally known for its distinguished permanent
collection of American Art, Chinese Art, Contemporary Art, European Art,
photography , and the sculpture garden .
2. Consider a guided tour for insightful commentary on collections and special exhibitions. The museum also offers free audio tours and museum maps that
are helpful.
various collections.
4. Tickets can be purchased online to save time. Parking is limited , therefore,
encourage visitors to plan accordingly.
Source : an d www. norton.org
PALM BEACH ZOO – 1301 Summit Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33405, 561- 547-
9453,
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Tourist Tips:
1. The Palm Beach Zoo is home to hundreds of animals including endangered Malayan tigers, Mexican spider monkeys, and jaguars. Do some research beforehand to prioritize which animals you want to see. The earlier the
better, as some animals are more active in the mornings .
2. The zoo has animal feedings, encounters, and special events throughout the day. Encourage visitors to check the schedule early in their visit.
3. Save time by purchasing tickets online.
4. There are concession stands , but you can also bring your own snacks.
5. If you want to feed animals, b ring cash to purchase food out of the special
dispensers for a small fee.
RAPIDS WATER PARK – 6566 N. Military Tr., Riviera Beach, FL, 33407, 561- 848-
6272, rapidswaterpark.com
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Tourist Tips:
1. Rapids Water Park is South Florida’s largest water park featuring 35 acres and
40 of the biggest, wettest, most thrilling water slides and attractions.
Compete on Florida's first Dueling Water Coaster Mega Mayhem or take a
relaxing break floating through the serene current of the Lazy River or in the
wave pool.
2. The park is open daily from mid -March through August and on the weekends
from September through November.
3. Suggest that visitors purchase their tickets directly from Rapids Water Park either on their website or in person, as tickets purchased on Criagslist,
Facebook Marketplace and other third -party sites may not be valid at the
water park.
lotion, and other items. Two snack bars are also located on site serving meals and snacks as well as beverages.
RICHARD AND PAT JOHNSON PALM BEACH COUNTY HISTORY
MUSEUM – 300 N. Dixie Hwy., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, pbchistory.org
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Tourist Tips:
1. Located in the 1916 West Palm Beach Courthouse, this museum’s exhibits
highlight the history of Palm Beach County through a variety of exhibit s,
including its permanent People and Places galleries, as well as changing
exhibits. A new exhibit opens each fall. There are also outdoor exhibits on the
courthouse grounds.
2. Special events and programs are held throughout the year, including lectures, presentations by re-enactors, and mock trials where attendees role play
different people in the trial. See the website for a schedule of upcoming
events.
3. Admission to the museum is free, but there is usually a charge for special programs and presentations.
THE SCHMIDT BOCA RATON HISTORY MUSEUM – 71 N. Federal Hwy., Boca
Raton, FL, 33432, 561-395- 6766,
WRITE IN GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION FROM KEY:
Tourist Tips:
1. Located in the Boca Raton Old City Hall, The Schmidt Boca Raton History
Museum’s permanent exhibits feature a timeline of Boca Raton history, the importance of IBM, World War II in Boca Raton, Addison Mizner, and the Boca
Raton Pioneer Era. The museum also hosts changing exhibits.
2. The museum also offers an X feed from pioneer Frank
Chesebro who tweets about his day’s activities each day from 100 years ago.
See -tweets f
or more information.
3. Guided tours of the museum and areas of Boca Raton are offered through the museum , for an additional fee. See the website for a schedule and
registration fees.
4. Museum admission is free on the first Saturday of the month.
Special Attraction: SHOPPING CENTERS & DISTRICTS
We have numerous shopping areas and retail centers in our area . Visitors can find
everything from one-of -a-kind antiques to designer fashions to must -have souvenirs in
our historic shopping areas. Our retail centers provide one- stop shopping at a variety of
nationally known and local stores. A wide array of restaurants and nightlife can be found
in these areas also.
Antique Row
South Dixie Hwy between Belvedere Rd. and Southern Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL,
33405,
• Antique Row is a world -renowned district of more than 40 antique shops, vintage
boutiques , and home design stores. It’s where you can find hidden gems from the
18th through the 21st centuries, fine and decorative arts, and period Art Deco
and modern furnishings, all within walking distance of one another. For the annual Evening on Antique Row fundraiser, the shops stay open late. Shop
owners serve drinks, gourmet food trucks prepare their most popular dishes , and
live music entertains the crowd.
CityPlace
700 S. Rosemary Ave., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 561- 366-1000,
• With its Mediterranean architecture and Italian -inspired public plazas, CityPlace
is a premier shopping destination in Downtown West Palm Beach. After a long
day of scouting deals, shoppers can grab a bite to eat at one of many the dining
options or kick back and relax on the plaza, with live entertainment.
Downtown Delray Beach
Downtown Delray Beach, Fl, 33445, 561-243- 1077, downtowndelraybeach.com
• The decoratively lit, charming streetscapes offer a mix of shops not unlike New
York’s Madison Avenue and SoHo, with a small -town All -America City ambiance
and friendly service. The heart of downtown is Atlantic Avenue or the “Avenue,”
as the locals call it. The Avenue has a charming ambiance set with brick-paved
sidewalks, live oaks, royal palm trees, decorative streetlamps , and the Atlantic
Ocean. Visitors will find quaint shops offering handmade art pieces and one-of-a-
kind gifts.
3101 PGA Blvd., Palm Beach Gardens, FL, 33410, 561- 775-7750,
• Nestled in the heart of Northern Palm Beach County, The Gardens Mall stands
out for luxury and destination shopping. The mall is home to more than 140 of the world's most iconic brands including Chanel, Michael Kors, Louis Vuitton, Tiffany & Co., Gucci , and Ferragamo .
The Mall at Wellington Green
10300 W. Forest Hill Blvd., Wellington, FL, 33414, 561- 227-6900,
• The Mall at Wellington Green is a blend of Mediterranean style and local architectural traditions. The two -level, enclosed mall features several fashion
retailers including Dillard’s , JCPenney, Macys, Nordstrom, and more than 150
specialty shops. Paragon and Cask + Shaker restaurant s are also located at the
mall.
Mizner Park
327 Plaza Real, Suite 315, Boca Raton, FL, 33432, 561-362-0606,
• For something more upscale, Mizner Park is a luxurious outdoor shopping, dining, and entertainment destination with a Mediterranean vibe. Visitors can shop,
dine, and unwind at the art museum, cinema, bowling lounge, or outdoor
amphitheater in this area that has a refreshing, resort -like atmosphere.
Northwood Village /O
ld Northwood
Roughly bounded by Broadway, N. Dixie Hwy, 26th St., and 35th St., West Palm Beach, FL,
33404, northwoodvillage.com
• With its own “Main Street ,” Northwood Village is home to a diverse array of
ethnic restaurants, antiques shops , and funky boutiques. Its monthly Art Night
Out is a free evening filled with wine tastings, street artists , and live
entertainment.
PGA Co mmons
5100 PGA Blvd., Palm Beach Gardens, FL, 33418, pgacommons.com
• PGA Commons is the art and dining district of Palm Beach Gardens. Enchanting
brick walkways and lush landscaping weave through more than 20 carefully curated restaurants, galleries, artful spaces, boutiques, and service providers.
340 Royal Poinciana Way, Palm Beach, FL, 33480,
• Located in the heart of Palm Beach, the Royal Poinciana Plaza reimagines a 1950s
architectural gem as a modern shopping oasis. Visitors will d iscover a delightful
mix of boutiques, ranging from renowned international brands to local shopping
concepts – all surrounding a lush courtyard with water fountains.
Worth Avenue
Worth Avenue, Palm Beach, 33480, 561-659-6909, worth -
• An enchanting shopping destination with European sophistication, Worth
Avenue is said to be one of the most beautiful shopping venues in the world.
Visitors will find Jimmy Choo, Louis Vuitton, Lilly Pulitzer , and Neiman Marcus , in
addition to other well- known luxury brands . They’ll also find romantic side alleys,
known as vias, with a captivating atmosphere rich with charm, architectural character, and historical glamour.
Tanger Outlets P
alm Beach
1751 Palm Beach Lakes Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 561- 515- 4405,
• Tanger Palm Beach features over 100 stores and all your favorite brand s,
including Kate Spade New York, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Coach, Saks OFF
5TH, Lacoste, J. Crew | crewcuts Factory, Banana Republic Factory Store, Nike
Factory Store , and Vera Bradley. Additionally, check out Marketplace at the
Outlets for Nordstrom Rack, Whole Foods, T.J. Maxx, Ulta, and more.
Town Center at Boca Raton
6000 Glades Rd., Boca Raton, FL, 33431, 561-873-2424, -
center -at-boca-raton
• One of South Florida’s top luxury shopping destinations, Town Center at Boca
Raton features an outstanding mix of upscale and elite specialty shops including
Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue, Nordstrom, Macy’s, and Bloomingdales.