Module 4
Exceeding Customer
Expectations
Module 4 Learn ing Objectives :
Exceedin g Customer Expectations
• Explain the importance of exceeding customer expectations ,
for your organization and your community.
• List ways to listen – actively and passively – and the barriers to
effective listening.
• Describe how everything communicates, whether spoken or
unspoken.
• Describe ways to turn customer complaints into opportunities.
• Explain the importance of continuously improving upon your
customer service skills.
• Identify ways to leave a positive last impression following
every visitor encounter .
When someone gives you poor service, what do you think about th at person?
Going through the motions? Doesn’t care about customers?
This module focuses on the attitudes and behaviors of front-line CTAs to continually
exceed customer expectations.
The way our visitors are treated influences what they say to others during their stay
and after they leave, which can either hurt or help our destination’s image and future
tourism . Continually honing your customer service and people skills is vitally important .
These are skills you will have for the
rest of your life – that you will
take with you into every job.
Exceeding Customer Expectations
Module 4 – Reading
CTAs are professionals and welcome the chance to refresh their customer service skills.
Ongoing tourism customer service refreshers help you develop, enhance, and build
upon the skills you use to take care of visitors and meet their needs.
These experiences contribute to customer loyalty, which translates into repeat business. The better your customer service skills are, the better your company’s business will do, which will ultimately be considered in your own performance appraisal and, possibly,
higher wages or tips.
The visitor is the one thing that binds us all together as CTAs.
Customer service skills
make the customer
feel valued…
and the visitor experience unique
and enjoyable.
‘Mapping the Visitor Experience’ is thinking about what the visitor experiences from the
time they leave home, to the time they return.
Basically, this means if you were to write down everything the visitor did or things that happened to them on their tr ip, you would create a ‘map’.
They traveled here .
They checked into their hotel.
They ate out.
They went sightseeing.
They went shopping.
They returned ho me. ‘Mapping’ is what they did and
their many experiences along the
way.
Whether you realize it or not,
you’ve been on the receiving end
of visitor mapping. Like when your friends or relatives returned from a trip and told you about
their experienc e – good or bad.
They may have driven or flown a long distanc e…
They may have lost their luggage…
They ma y have been
swamped before they left…
They may have traveled with children…
They just want to get here, get settled in,
and start having fun.
When they see YOU, they want a smile, some help, and some reassurance that
they’ve made the right decision to come to our beautiful part of the world.
This reinforces how YOU are the brand for the destination.
YOU are one of many steps along their journey that makes or breaks their stay .
That’s why when they see you…
they want a smile.
C. Exceeding Customer Expectations
Every customer goes into a place of business expecting a certain level of service.
This is called ‘customer expectations.’
What does it mean to “ meet expectations ” or “ exceed expectations ?”
Are they the same thing? No, they are not.
Think about buying a car. Let’s assume that you
love the c ar but had a terrible experience with the
dealership. The product was good, but service
was bad, which led to a bad experience.
It might be expressed as a simple equation:
Product + Service = A Bad Experience
Now, let’s use a similar example common in the tourism industry. A visitor goes to a
restaurant and enjoys good service, but the food is poor.
Product + Service = A Bad Experience
But the server realized that her customers were not happy, so she offered a free dessert. Now look at it…
Product + Service = A Good Experience
But she didn’t stop there. She knew her supervisor would support giving them a coupon for a discount on their next meal. Now look at it…
Product + Service = A Memorable Experience
That’s what we mean by exceeding customer expectations . The server put the
“WOW” factor into the experience.
not taken the steps to turn it into a memorable experience.
Would the visitor ever return? What would they tell others?
And that’s only counting those visitors staying in hotels! It doesn’t include those
staying elsewhere, staying with friends or relatives, or driving in and out on a day trip.
What can I do? I’m just one person.
The beauty of the CTA program is that you’re not just one person .
You are part of an important group of professionals who are working to enhance the
visitor experience. All visitor encounters, collectively,
make up the total visitor experience.
As you can see, the power of each Certified Tourism Ambassador ™ is tremendous.
YOU want to be remembered.
YOU want to stand out from your competitors.
YOU want customers coming back.
This requires that you exceed customer expectations,
by delivering exceptional customer service.
There are approximately 19,000 hotel rooms in
The Palm Beaches . On average…
•About 12,920 of the hotel rooms in our area are occupied
daily by 1.5 people per room = 19,380 people per day.
•These 19,380 people have at least two ‘encounters’
resulting in
2 x 19,380 or 38,760 contacts per day!
•That means 38,760 opportunities each day to
GET IT RIGHT and to MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
Let’s Do the Math…
Customer Expectations
Here are some basic rules and skills that provide guiding principles for all CTAs.
As you read each, celebrate those skills you’ve mastered, and those you wish
to improve.
Rule #1 – ATTEND TO THE CUSTOMER
Attend to the customer. They are your number one priority!
• The customer always comes first.
• Meet their needs.
• Answer their questions or refer them to someone
who can.
• Watch for approaching customers. Focus on them as they approach.
• If you’re busy, acknowledge them and use these
powerful words:
“We’ll be right with you.”
• Smile and give them your full attention.
Stop multi -tasking.
• Engage them ; maintain eye contact. Make them
feel special.
• Eliminate side conversations. Focus on their needs,
not yours.
• Be genuine. Make them feel like you’ve invited them into your living room.
• Happy customers mean less stress and more fun on the job for you and your co-workers.
• Realize their importance – without them, you
wouldn’t have a job ! FACT: The customer makes your job possible. You have a job because of the customer.
Rule #2 – EVERYTHING COMMUNICATES
FACT: Whether you’re speaking or not, you’re communicating .
Think of what is communicated to customers when they see long lines, sloppy dress,
excessive small talk, or a dirty work area.
Everything communicates when it comes to the customer.
• Attitude – make sure it’s positive and helpful.
• Appearance – Maintain a professional and confident
presence. It shows that you care about yourself and
your customers.
• Cleanliness – Strive for a clean body, clean clothes, and
a clean work area.
• Friendliness – Let them know you’re glad they’re here!
• Body Language – Watch your body language. Make sure
it’s positive.
• Set the Stage – Before you start work, think of the above
and do what a fellow CTA does. Before he goes into the
hotel lobby, he puts on his badge and says, “It’s show time! ”
Which one would you prefer to serve your table?
Better yet, which one would you hire?
Everything communicates.
Rule #3 – CREATE A POSITIVE ENVIRONMENT
FACT: Negative comments or attitudes and customer service don’t mix.
Negative comments can destroy the visitor experience.
• Make all experiences positive regardless of
your personal problems.
• If something goes wrong, never blame others,
especially in front of a customer.
• Don’t cut down the competition.
• Avoid negative comparisons about businesses
or people.
• Never air your ‘dirty laundry ’ or gossip in
front of the customer ; it makes you look
unprofessional.
Rule #4 – LISTEN TO THE CUSTOMER
FACT: Customers are not interruptions to your work –they are your work !
Effective listening is a skill that can be carried
with you for life.
• Effective listeners keep their ego
from getting in the way.
• Ask questions and listen to
their answers.
• Clarify what they want or need.
Make sure you understand.
• Listen for what’s interesting to them , not necessarily to you.
• Ask “What are your interests? What would you like to see or do?”
• Be patient. If you’re feeling impatient, imagine you are serving your elderly aunt – the aunt you
love dearly. Active Listening
is hearing what the customer
is saying .
Passive Listening
is finishing the customer’s
sentences, interrupting,
or doing something else
while they’re talking , like
multi -tasking .
Effective listening is a skill
that can be carried with
you for life.
If you can’t say
something
positive, don’t say
anything at all.
Rule #5 – KNOW YOUR JOB
FACT: The more you know about your job, the more you will enjoy doing it.
• Be good at what you do. Convey enthusiasm.
• Ask your boss for feedback on how you’re doing.
• Recommend new ways of doing things.
• Think continuous improvement …think about ways to make your
customer service more effective, easier.
• What else can you learn? Know your company’s history, plus ‘cool
trivia’ and ‘tourist tips’.
• Be aware of the value that a diverse workforce brings to our area
– a tapestry of physical abilities, cultures, and experiences.
• Know what’s going on; stay current on major events.
• Take initiative. The only person who knows best how to improve
the quality of your work is you .
Rule #6 – VIEW COMPLAINTS AS OPPORTUNITIES
FACT: Every complaint is an opportunity to exceed customer expectations.
• When you can’t say Yes, never
say No.
• Use the complaint as an
opportunity to exceed expectations.
• Make eye contact. Show concern. Be empathetic.
• Listen and ask questions to find out the cause of the complaint.
• Take ownership. Tell the customer what you intend to
do and then do it .
• Stay with the problem until you have it resolved. Don’t turn them over to someone else unless you
know they can fix the problem.
• If someone else can help them,
make the introduction , then
explain the complaint. Don’t make the customer tell or
re-live it all over again. • Know your company’s policies.
Ask your supervisor h ow far you
can go to ‘make it right’ e.g., money back, discount coupon,
freebie, etc.
• Never say, “There’s nothing I
can do.” You must try. They’ll
appreciate it.
• Don’t take it personally.
• Say “I’m sorry. May I try to straighten things out?”
These words show action and
make you look professional.
• Talk with your co-workers about
how they handle complaints. Learn all you can from them.
• Learn something from every complaint.
Learn something from
every complaint.
Become an advocate
and proud ambassador
for our area.
Exceeding customer expectations = going the extra mile :
• Go beyond what’s expected of you.
• Give them something ‘extra’ every opportunity.
• Use the tools and resources available to you.
• Help them with what they’re interested in
seeing or doing.
• Work with your colleagues around the area to
create a unique visitor experience.
Rule #8 – IMPROVE YOUR CUSTOMER SERVICE SKILLS
FACT: Everyone can improve their customer service skills.
• Be aware of how you are serving the customer.
• Work to grow your skills.
• Watch others and learn from them.
• Do the right things right!
• Work with your team to polish their skills .
Support and build the team.
• Never say “That’s not my job” or leave the
customer hanging.
• Take responsibility. Serve the customer as if you owned the business!
Rule #9 – TAKE PRIDE IN YOUR WORK
FACT: The surest way to NOT deliver exceptional
customer service is to choose not to.
Accountability for your customer service starts and
ends with you.
• Don’t let others convince you it’s not ‘cool’ to provide exceptional customer service.
• Believe in yourself. Be self -confident.
• Always deliver quality.
• Never stop learning and growing.
• Take pride in who you are and the job you do.
• Never forget how important you ar e to our
area’s tourism and economic development.
Rule #7 – GO THE EXTRA MILE
FACT: Every visitor appreciates something extra.
Rule #10 – LEAVE A POSITIVE LASTING IMPRESSION
FACT: The customer will remember yo u, if you exceed their expectations.
The final impression is as important as the first impression.
When you’ve paid money for something, how many times has a person told
you thanks, by smiling and making sincere eye contact?
How many times have you actually felt they were glad to have your business?
Not many?
What you say and do at the end of the visitor encounter leaves a lasting impressio n:
• Thank them for their business. And mean it!
• Make eye contact, smile, and use positive body language.
• A robotic ‘thank you’ is worse than nothing at all.
• Encourage them to allow you to serve them again.
• Leave the visitor with this message, in your own words:
Thanks for coming to our great city !
We hope you’ll tell others what a
great place we have here and that
you’ll come back soon!
Consistency of message across our destination is one of the goals of the CTA program –
having CTAs deliver similar messages to visitors at critical moments during their stay.
This ensures consistency in the quality of the service CTAs provide to the visitor.
Below you will find common visitor questions or interactions and suggested responses. How do these responses compare with those you would typically use? Are they similar?
Study them closely and begin to memorize the responses.
You don’t have to use these exact word s, use your own style to
get the message across. You might like to ‘try these on’ for a while.
With a little practice, they’ll become second nature.
When said with sincerity and with a smile, they’re bound to have a
positive impact on our visitors.
Think of the impact this will have across our area when hundreds of CTAs give these
responses to visitors at every opportunity!
CTA Response #1:
What is a CTA?
In your own words:
“It stands for Certified Tourism Ambassador.
It’s industry certification for people like me who have
been trained and certified to help make sure our
visitors have a great experience.”
What is there to do around here ?
CTA Response #3:
Can you recommend X over Y?
Don’t disparage other businesses:
CTA Response #4:
The CTA Closing Statement.
At the end of every visitor encounter , in your own words:
If you were to go somewhere on vacation and you heard similar words consistently
throughout your stay, wouldn’t you be impressed? You’d probably say ,
“Wow, this place really gets it!”
That’s what will make a difference – consistent messaging from the front- line.
Imagine the power of YOU and fellow CTAs combined!
“There’s a lot to do. How much time
do you have and what are your interests?”
“That’s a good place. You may also want
to try restaurant A or B.”
“Thanks for coming to our great city. We hope you’ll
tell others what a great place we have here
and that you’ll come back soon!”
F. Summary and Key Messages
Key messages in Module 4 include:
• Do your very best to turn every visitor encounter into a positive experience.
• Continuously refine and improve your customer service skills.
• Develop the habit of going the extra mile when serving visitors.
• Know the elements that contribute to the visitor experience – map the visitor
experience.
• Be aware of the consequences of visitors having good – vs. bad – experiences.
• Focus on the customer rather than yourself.
• Listen attentively and actively. Ask questions.
• Use the resources and tools that are available to you.
• Determine with your supervisor how far you can go in handling problems.
• Know the importance of a smile and what a smile communicates to visitors.
• Never blame others, especially in conversations with visitors or customers.
• Don’t degrade competitors, attractions , or events.
• Say something positive or say nothing at all.
• View complaints as opportunities to create and share a positive experience.
• Everything communicates – attitude, appearance, cleanliness, friendliness ,
and body language; 90% of communication is non -verbal.
• End every encounter with the CTA closing statement – it’ll have a lasting
impact!
Section
Earning the CTA Designation
IV
A. Requirements to Earn the CTA Designation
As this is a n industry-recognized designation , Discover The Palm Beaches is required to
ensure that you have met the requirements to earn the CTA designation.
After the conclusion of the classroom training session, you will be evaluated as to whether you have satisfactorily:
• Completed the required reading and pre-class exercises
• Demonstrated active participation in all classroom exercises
• Completed all assignments
• Earned a passing score on the open -book exam at the end of
the classroom session
• Demonstrated your commitment to becoming a CTA and to
renewing you r certification annually
B. Notification to CTA Candidates
1. After your classroom session you will be notified whether you have satisfied
requirements for the CTA designation .
2. If you are successful, you will receive acknowledgment from your local
administrator, a printable Certificate, a printable CTA Card, and an attractive
lapel pin designating you as certified . See Section II for more details .
3. If you are not successful, you r local administrator will be in touch.
C. Good Luck!! Thank you for your interest in this exciting program. You’re on your
way to becoming a CTA !
NOTE: The Tourism Ambassador Institute® , as the accrediting body, grants Accredited
Providers the accreditation rights to present, on behalf of the
TAI, the CTA designation to individuals satisfactorily complet ing all program requirements. To
maintain their accreditation status, Accredited Providers must annually conform to quality
assurance standards. This requirement is established to maintain uniform standards of quality for the CTA designation. Therefore, please be sure to contact your local program administrator,
if you have questions about the program or the requirements to achieve the CTA designation.
THE PALM BEACHES
TOURISM ASSADOR PROGRAM
Glossary of Terms
CDME – Certified Destination M anagement Executive, offered by D estinations
International to CVBs and DMOs across the world
COC – Chamber of Commerce
CTA – Certified Tourism Ambassador ™
CVB – Convention & Visitors Bureau
DI – Destinations International
DMO – Destination Marketing Organization
TAI – Tourism Ambassador Institute
®
U.S. Travel Association
• Appendix 1 - Landmarks
“What’s that building?”
Our destination’s buildings, neighborhoods, historic homes, and other landmarks speak
to who we are and where we’ve been. Read on to be able to answer a visitor when they
ask, “What’s that building?”
Our Historic Districts
Atlantic Avenue – From Swinton Avenue on the west to the A1A on the east, Delray
Beach, FL, 33483
• In addition to its many shops and restaurants, Atlantic Avenue contains some of Delray Beach’s oldest and most important buildings, including the 1913 Delray
Schoolhouse which houses the Cornell Museum of Art , the Colony Hotel (see
below), the Boyd Building , and the Arcade Tap Room. The Tap Room is where
some of the most famous cartoonists of the 1920s and 30s hung out. It was often frequented by Fontaine Fox and Jim Raymond .
• Atlantic Avenue also intersects with Old School Square Historic Arts District and
the Marina Historic District.
Central Park Historic District – Roughly bounded along FL 805 and S. Olive Avenue from
Monroe Drive to Southern Boulevard, West Palm Beach, FL, 33406
• The homes in the Central Park Historic District were built mainly between 1922 and 1949. Their architectural styles include Mission, Craftsman, Bungalow, Monterey, American Foursquare, Colonial Revival, and Minimal Traditions. The Colony Hotel on
Atlantic Avenue
s-resorts/colony -hotel -and-
cabana -club/
Appendix 1 – Our Landmarks
to the Prospect Park Historic District .
Clematis Street Historic Commercial District – 500 Block of Clematis St., West Palm
Beach, FL, 33401
• The commercial buildings in this area were constructed between 1918 and 1929.
• Significant historic buildings include the Spanish Colonial Revival-style Jennings
Building , the Renaissance Revival-style Sirkin Building , the Campbell Building ,
Sewell Hardware , The Ketchum Dry Goods Store , and Suther’s Market .
College Park Historic District – Roughly bounded by Maryland Dr., N. Federal Highway,
19
th Avenue, and N. Dixie Highway, Lake Worth, FL, 33460
• The earliest homes in this district were built between December 1924 and May 1925. These homes were marketed during the Florida land boom. Within the first three hours, 90% of the lots were sold. Edgewood Realty Company was the developer of the neighborhood. In order to maintain an upscale neighborhood, Edgewood required that all lots be at least 50 feet wide, and each home had to
cost at least $5,000. Several of the earlier homes in the district were built in the
Mediterranean Revival and Mission -style arc hitecture.
• A second building boom occurred in Florida in the 1940s. Homes built in the
neighborhood at that time are slab on grade masonry houses characterized by
Masonry Vernacular, International, and Ranch architectural styles.
• The neighborhood’s streets are all named after prominent American colleges or universities .
Clematis Street Historic
Commercial District
Avenue to the west and NE 3rd Avenue to the east, Delray Beach, FL, 33444
• This neighborhood was one of Delray Beach’s first planned developments.
• The homes here were built between 1920 and the 1940s and reflect mainly the
Mediterranean Revival and Craftsman Bungalow architectural styles. Other styles include Mission -Revival, Bungalows, and Frame Vernacular.
• The neighborhood features a unique, diagonal street pattern with curvilinear corners, creating triangular blocks with pie -shaped parks.
Downtown Boca Raton – Bordered on the west by SW 3
rd Avenue and Crawford
Avenue, on the south by SE 11th Street, on the east by SE 5th Avenue, and on the north
by NE 3th Street and NE Mizner Boulevard, Boca Raton, FL, 33432
• As mentioned, in 1925, architect Addison Mizner planned the layout of Downtown Boca Raton. Although all of Mizner’s plans for the town didn’t come to fruition, due to the end of the Florida land boom, the Old Town Hall (see
below) was completed in 1927. Other historic buildings in the area include the FEC Railway Passenger Station and administrative buildings that today house
The Addison of Boca Raton , an event venue.
El Cid Historic District – Roughly bounded by Flamingo Dr., S. Flagler Dr., Dyer Rd, and S.
Dixie Highway, West Palm Beach, FL, 33401
• The El Cid Historic District was developed mainly during the 1920s Florida land boom. It was developed by Pittsburgh socialite John “Jay” Shaffer Phipps (See
Section 3 – Our Influential Citizens, Page 71) the son of Henry Phipps, who
partnered with Andrew Carnegie to form U.S. Steel. The younger Phipps assembled old pineapple fields and other property upon which he built and sold
expensive Mediterranean Revival and Mission -style homes. Downtown
Boca Raton
wntown -boca.php
shore of Lake Worth brought affluent business, political, and social leaders to the neighborhood.
• Phipps named this development of mainly Spanish-style home after Rodrigo
Diaz de Bivar who led Castilians and Iberian Moors to conquer
Valencia, Spain in 1094. The moors called him “Cid ,” an Arabic term meaning
“lord.”
Flamingo Park Historic Residential District – Bounded by Park Pl., Parker Ave.,
Belvedere Rd., and Florida Ave., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401
• Built on the highest of coastal ridges between downtown West Palm Beach and Miami , Flamingo Park was home to many prominent citizens when it was built in
the early 1920s. Like many other Palm Beach County historic districts, the area
grew rapidly during the Florida land boom. Similar to those areas, the
architecture reflects the Missio n, Mediterranean Revival, and Frame Vernacular
styles.
• One of the most significant homes here is the Alfred J. Comeau House at 701
Flamingo Drive, built in 1924. Comeau was a prominent businessman who also
built one of West Palm Beach’s first skyscrapers.
Grandview Heights Historic District – Roughly bounded by Park Pl., Alabama Ave., M St.,
and S. Lake Ave., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401
• Established in 1910, the Grandview Heights neighborhood’s first residents were
ministers, downtown shopkeepers, and the construction workers who built Palm Beach’s resorts. Most of the historic homes in the neighborhood were completed by 1925.
• By the 1990s, many of the homes in the neighborhood had significantly declined. The City of West Palm Beach purchased approximately half of the
Alfred J. Comeau House in
the Flamingo Park Historic
Residential District
340089
which included the Kravis Center for the Performing Arts (See Section 8 –
Uniquely The Palm Beaches, Page 110), CityPlace , and the Palm Beach County
Convention Center .
• During this time, people began desiring an urban living lifestyle, with the district
growing in popularity. Today, it is one of the most popular neighborhoods in West Palm Beach.
Historic Old Town Commercial Center/Downtown Lake Worth Beach – Bounded by
FEC, M St., Lucerne Ave., and 1 Ave. South, Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33460
• Downtown Lake Worth Beach is known as “Old Town.” Most of the buildings
were built in the 1920s, but there are also buildings of historic significance that
were built between 1912 and 1949. The post office dates to 1912 and the Casino
and Bathing Pavilion were built in 1919. A block schoolhouse was built in 1916 that became the City Hall in 1927. The City’s Municipal Auditorium was built in 1933.
• Architectural styles in this district include Art Deco, Mission, Mediterranean Revival, and Wood Frame Vernacular.
Jupiter Inlet Historic and Archaeological Site – 400 N. Delaware Blvd., Jupiter, FL, 33458
• Native Americans used the Jupiter Inlet for transportation because it was the
only outlet for the Loxahatchee River, Lake Worth Creek, and the Jupiter Sound,
with part of the flow from the St. Lucie and Indian Rivers diverting to the ocean
through the Jupiter Inlet, as well.
• This location was the site of the Jeaga village of Hobe , which
was later changed to Jove and inspired the name of the town of Jupiter.
• Built in 1898, the DuBois Pioneer Home (See Section 1 – Our Area’s Early History,
Page 45) is one of the last homestead buildings remaining in Palm Beach County.
It was built of Florida pine by Florida pioneers Harry and Susan DuBois and is
Downtown
Lake Worth Beach
Discover The Palm Beaches
Jeaga people.
• Artifacts found in the mound include pieces of pottery, bone- handled
toothbrushes, and a faceted Chevron bead that is thought to have been produced
in Italy in the 14th century. These beads were used only by wealthy individuals for
trading.
• The home and the mound are jointly listed on the National Register of Historic
Places as the Jupiter Inlet Historic and Archaeological Site.
Mango Promenade Historic District – Bounded by S. Dixie Hwy., Austin Ln., Coconut Ln.,
and Cranesnest Way, West Palm Beach, FL, 33401
• Platted from 1912 to 1936, t he Man go Promenade neighborhood was one of
West Palm Beach’s earliest upper-middle class suburbs . The neighborhood
features early accommodations for automobiles. This is evident in the fact that the garages were built at the same time as the homes.
• South Dixie Highway contains commercial buildings , so the neighborhood is a
true, mixed -use district.
• Unique to the neighborhood are two pedestrian- only walkways. The brick -
paved Mango Promenade connects the South Dixie Highway to S. Olive Avenue,
and the Orange Court connects the South Dixie Highway to S. Flagler Drive. Each
served as walkways for the houses, while cars accessed garage entrances on parallel alley ways.
• Architectural styles in the district include American Foursquare, Craftsman Bungalow, Colonial Revival, Mediterranean Revival, Queen Anne, Dutch Colonial,
and Monterey.
Mango Promenade
Historic District
720412085649862
south, SE 7th Ave. to the west, and the Intracoastal Waterway to the east, Delray Beach,
FL, 33483
• The Marina Historic District is one of Delray Beach’s most pedestrian -friendly
neighborhoods with narrow and shaded streets. The area was home to many
prominent seasonal residents who appreciated its close proximity to the ocean
and the Intracoastal Waterway.
• One of the notable buildings in this district is the Christian Science Church
on 7th Avenue.
• Architectural styles here include Monterey, Florida Cottages, Art Moderna, Mediterranean Revival, and Mission Revival.
Nassau Park Historic District – Boundaries include the two -block area of Nassau St.
between Venetian Dr. to the west and S. Ocean Blvd. to the east, Delray Beach, FL, 33483
• With homes built between 1935 and 1941, the Nassau Park Historic District was Delray Beach’s first planned residential development south of Atlantic Avenue.
It was built to compl ement the surrounding resorts and hotels along South
Ocean Boulevard and to exemplify the 1930s Delray Beach resort life. However,
the smaller scale of these homes reflects a time when people with money did not want to flaunt it.
• The neighborhood is home to 17 one- and two-story cottages built in the Cape
Cod Revival and Minimal Traditional Style.
• Nassau Street was originally named Jo -Jo Avenue , but the name was changed by
developer R.C. MacNeil who commissioned the first house built in the area.
Nassau Park
Historic District
-park -historic -district -
delray -beach
Poinsettia Ave. on the east., Broadway on the west, and 36th St. on the south, West
Palm Beach, FL, 33407
• The homes in the Northboro Park neighborhood were built between the 1920s
and 50s. Architecture styles here include Vernacular, Frame and Masonry Vernacular, Minimal Traditional, Mission Revival, and Romanesque Revival.
Northwest Historic District – Roughly bounded by Tamarind Ave. on the east, 11
th St. on
the south, Rosemary Ave. on the west, and 3rd St. on the north, West Palm Beach, FL,
33401
• The Northwest Historic District was once a segregated African American community that was first settled in 1894. It consisted of both the Northwest
neighborhood and Pleasant City . The Northwest Historic District was the larger of the two and was the residential and commercial core of the area.
• Today, the neighborhood is still a predominantly Black area, although many of the middle and upper class have moved to other sections of town.
• The main architectural styles found in this neighborhood include Frame and Masonry Vernacular, Shotgun, Bungalow Craftsman, and Mission. Several of the churches in the area were designed in the Gothic Revival style.
Historic Old Northwood/Northwood Village – Roughly bounded by Broadway, N. Dixie
Hwy, 26
th St., and 35th St., West Palm Beach, FL, 33404
• Built between 1920 and 1927, during the F lorida land boom , these homes were
considered luxurious .
• It was the place to live at this time, as wealthy people from around the country
flocked to the neighborhood, paying between $30,000 and $36,000 per home.
Most of the residents were successful professionals and politicians, including the
mayor of West Palm Beach.
• Today, the Northwood Village Creative Arts District is located in the district.
Comprised of one-of-a- kind shops, galleries, restaurants, and cafes, the village
gives off a bohemian vibe.
• The dominant architecture in this neighborhood is Mediterranean Revival with a
few Mission and Vernacular homes.
Palmway St., and N. O St. from Lake Ave. to 7th Ave. N., Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33460
• In 1906, 500,000 acres of the Florida Everglades were drained in hopes of
converting the land to farms.
• In 1912, the Palm Beach Farms Company purchased 60,000 of those acres and
named the area “Lucerne.” As previously mentioned, it was realized that this name was already taken by another town in Florida, so the name was changed to “Lake Worth ,” which was incorporated in 1913.
Old School Square Historic Arts District – Bounded by Lake Ida Rd, NE 1
st Ave., SW 2nd
St., and North Swinton Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33483
• The Old School Square district is situated in the original geographic center of Delray Beach, and it is the town’s largest historic district.
• The buildings were built between 1902 and 1945. Every pre- World War I and II
Vernacular architectural style in Delray Beach is found in this district. Other styles include Masonry Vernacular, Craftsman Bungalow, Mission, and Mediterranean Revival.
• Many of the buildings in this area have been repurposed for production of the arts, including the Delray Beach Center for the Arts at Old School Square and the
Cornell Art Museum.
Pleasant City – Bordered on the north by 23
rd St. and 15th St., on the east by Dixie
Highway, on the south by 16th St., and on the west by the Florida East Coast Railway,
West Palm Beach, FL, 33405
• Established in 1904, Pleasant City is the oldest neighborhood founded by African Americans in West Palm Beach. Many of the initial residents were
workers who came to the area to extend the Florida East Coast Railroad from
Cornell Art Museum
at Old School Square
Royal Poinciana Hotel and Whitehall.
• When the neighborhood was platted, the founders chose pleasant names for the
roads, including Happy Street, Merry Place, and Cheerful Street.
Prospect Park/Southland Park Historic District – Bounded by Lake Worth, S. Dixie Hwy,
Moncaux Rd, and Monroe Dr., West Palm Beach, FL, 33409
• The buildings in this neighborhood were built between 1900 and 1945. The architectural style represented here is mainly late 19
th and 20th Century American
Revival.
Royal Poinciana Way Historic District – Bounded by 207- 283 Royal Poinciana Way, Palm
Beach, FL, 33480
• This district represents the historic commercial center of Palm Beach with buildings constructed between 1915 and 1954.
• A variety of architectural styles have been used in the district, including Vernacular, American Foursquare, Neoclassical Revival, Mission Revival,
Mediterranean Revival, Art Moderna, and Mid -Century Modern.
Vedado Historic District – Roughly bounded by Merrill Ave., Southern Blvd on the south,
Parker Ave. on the east, and Paseo Morella, West Palm Beach, FL, 33405
• Most of the homes in this neighborhood were built in the 1940s and 50s.
• A few dates to the 1920s, when the neighborhood became the first suburb in
West Palm Beach . Most of the homes are one story in this district.
Vedado
Historic District
ty/3715-paseo -andalusia -
west -palm -beach -
fl/3223r7ckm3v1v/
by NW 2nd Ave., on the south by Atlantic Ave., and on the west by NW 6th Ave., Delray
Beach, FL, 33483
• Settled in 1894, this neighborhood was the first African American neighborhood
in Delray Beach. The area was called “The Sands” because of its sandy soil .
Many of the residents in the neighborhood wor ked on nearby farms .
• The architectural style of the early homes in the district are Frame Vernacular, as settlers built their own homes utilizing local materials. Homes built in the 1920s
are of Bungalow and Mission Revival styles.
• As educational and religious institutions were important to the residents, a
school, three churches, and a Masonic lodge were all built in the district
between 1895 and 1920.
• Notable buildings in the area include Mount Olive Baptist Church and La France
Hotel. Discover It: Walking tour brochures of the neighborhood are available at
the Spady Cultural Heritage Museum West Settlers District Walking Tour
Brochures – -tour/
Worth Avenue/Via Mizner – Bounded by 337 -339 Worth Ave., Palm Beach, FL, 33480
• This shopping avenue was one of the first areas developed in Palm Beach when
it was named in 1913 for General William Jenkins Worth who fought in the Second Seminole War.
• In 1918, architects Addison Mizner and Paris Singer built the Everglades Club at
the western end of Worth Avenue, introducing the Mediterranean architectural
style. Mizner also designed and built an office building on the street to house his
architectural studio and related businesses. Today that building is a three-
bedroom apartment.
• In 1924, Mizner began working on the three -story Villa Mizner building , with
shopping on the ground floor and residences above. Mizner himself occupied one
Worth Avenue
Discover The Palm Beaches
the adjacent Via Mizner shopping complex.
• Through the 1940s, the avenue developed to include shops, courtyards
connected by pedestrian “vias,” and landscape features including tiled fountains,
sculptures, and shaded benches.
• Via Mizner extends from Worth Avenue adding to the concept of a European -
influenced pedestrian village.
• Discover It: Walking tours of Worth Avenue are offered by Historic Walking Tours
of Worth Avenue – worth -avenue.com .
Our Historic Landmarks
The Boca Raton – 501 E. Camino Real, Boca Raton, FL, 33432, 855-874-6551,
• Built initially as the Cloister Inn by architect Addison Mizner, The Boca Raton has been renovated several times.
• In November 1927, Clarence Geist , one of Mizner’s investors, purchased the
hotel as a wintertime golf resort to complement his summer golf resort in New
Jersey. He added two additional golf courses to the three that already existed and tripled the size of the resort. The name was changed to The Boca Raton Club,
and it operated as a private club where only members and their guests could stay. This made it very popular with those who didn’t want to live in the
limelight.
• The hotel never made a profit . In 1942 during World War II, Geist’s widow leased
the hotel to the U.S. government to be used as housing for the Boca Raton Army Air Field .
• In 1944, after the war had ended, the hotel was purchased by hotelier J. Myer
Schine who painted it in its famous pink color and promoted it heavily as The Boca Raton
Discover The Palm Beaches
newspaper ads.
• In 1956, it was purchased by Arthur Vining Davis, one of the wealthiest men in
the world at the time. Davis also purchased a large section of Boca Raton and
began to build and promote gated communities in the city. In the late 1960s, he
added the 26 -floor tower and a new convention center. He also extended the
seawalls to accommodate yachts and charter boats on the lakefront.
• In 1993, new owners added the Tennis and Fitness Center . Another set of new
owners added the Mizner Center in 1998 with its four ballrooms and the Spa
Palazzo in 2001.
Boca Raton Old City Hall – 71 N. Federal Hwy., Boca Raton, FL, 33432, 561- 393-7700,
myboca.us
• Also known as the Town Hall , this building was designed by architect Addison
Mizner. It opened in 1927 as Boca Raton’s first municipal building, fire station, and police department.
• The Woman’s Club opened the city’s first public library here in 1927 , and the
second floor was the fire chief’s home for several years.
• In 1975, it was determined that a new city hall was needed and that the building should become a museum. The Boca Raton Historical Society moved its offices to the building and several city offices remained until 1983. Discover It : In 1984, Old
City Hall was restored to its original architectural design by the Boca Raton
Historical Society in 1984. The building now operates as T he Schmidt Boca Raton
History Museum – (
See the Attractions Section, Page 174)
The Breakers – One South County Rd., Palm Beach, FL, 33480, 855- 332-2195,
• As mentioned, after building the Hotel Royal Poinciana, Henry Flagler built this
hotel on the beach as the Beach Inn. Guests wanting to stay at the Inn would
Boca Raton Old City Hall
Schmidt Boca Raton
History Museum
Discover The Palm Beaches
it quickly became known as “The Breakers.”
• In 1903, workers were enlarging the building for the fourth time in less than a decade, when a fire started and burned the building to the ground . Flagler
declared that not only would it be rebuilt, but that it would be open for the upcoming winter season.
• The hotel reopened on February 1, 1904 , as a four -story, colonial -style building
with 425 rooms and suites. Rooms started at $4 per night and that included three meals per day.
40 The venture was very successful and famous people, like
the Vanderbilts, Rockefellers, and Astors were common guests.
• Fire struck again in 1925 when the wife of Chicago Mayor “Big Bill” Thompson
left her curling iron on. Flagler’s heirs, led by William R. Kenan, Jr., president of the FEC Hotel Company and the FEC Railway Company, and Flagler’s brother -in-
law, announced that the hotel would again be rebuilt in time for the 1926- 27
winter season.
• The architects designed the new hotel, as seen today, after the Villa Medici in Rome. It was built as a seven -story hotel by more than 1,200 construction
workers working around the clock. Seventy -two artists from Italy completed the
paintings on the lobby ceiling. The cost was $7 million, and construction was
completed in 11.5 months, opening the hotel on Dec. 29, 1926, just in time for
the Palm Beach winter season.
• Guests continue to be impressed with the resort’s 200 -foot lobby with a hand -
painted ceiling , its Florentine Dining Room, and its beautiful landscaping.
Colony Hotel & Cabaña Club – 525 E. Atlantic Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33483, 561- 276-
4123, colonyflorida.com
• Opening as the Alterep Hotel in 1926 , the hotel’s three stories were built in the
Spanish Colonial Revival style by a group of investors led by Albert T. Repp. Its domed towers and stucco facades were unique to the other hotels built in the
area, as were the Spanish Galleon carved into the lobby’s central mantle and the terrazzo floor tiles. The hotel also had an Otis & Company elevator that featured
cut-glass panels and dark wood trim . It was filled with Fixx Reed wicker
furniture, which the developer had purchased from the upscale John Wanamaker Store in Philadelphia.
• Unfortunately, the hotel did not turn a profit after it opened. Things got worse
when the Great Depression hit, and Repp foreclosed on the hotel.
• In 1935, newlyweds George and Agnes Boughton were passing through Delray
Beach on the way back from their cancelled honeymoon trip when they saw the
Alterep Hotel. George’s father was a hotelier and they convinced him to purchase the hotel with them. They renamed it “The Colony Hotel ” and
250-foot strip of land along the Atlantic Ocean . The hotel is still managed by the
Boughton family today.
Duck’s Nest – 303 Maddock Way, Palm Beach, FL, 33480
• Built in 1891, the home known as the Duck’s Nest was shipped from New York in
pieces on a floating barge .
• The house was built as a winter residence for Henry Maddock’s family. Maddock
was a New Yorker who imported English china. He had followed the railway expansion to Florida and sold china to the many hotels in the area. He eventually decided that having a winter home in the area was a good idea.
• Duck’s Nest is the second -oldest home in Palm Beach. Some say the house got
its name from the ducks that roosted on the freshwater marsh , now filled in,
that was formerly located just east of the building. Others say the name came
from the fact that Maddock affectionately called his wife “Duckie.”
• When it was built, the only way to access the house was via boat on the Lake
Worth .
• By 1941, the house was in great disrepair when Henry’s son Paul took it over. The town told him to tear it down or restore it, so Paul decided to restore it. He first built a causeway through the marsh to connect the house to a
county road. In 1942, the town filled in the marsh using the causeway as a dike.
• The home has had many renovations and additions , the most recent occurring in
2021. It is still a private residence .
First Church of Christ Scientist – 700 S. Dixie Hwy., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401,
561-655-2343,
• In 1904, seven Christian Scientists from across the U.S. met in West Palm Beach
to establish the area’s first permanent Christian Science Church. The
congregation held its early services in the Masonic Lodge on Clematis Street.
Duck’s Nest
story/news/2020/12/26/re -do-
palm -beachs -second -oldest -
house- wins -preservation -
award/4022700001/
construction of a church building, which was completed in 1913.
• In 1926, today’s Neo -classical building was constructed on land donated by Anne
Phipps, the wife of steel magnate Henry Phipps.
• The beauty of the church is exemplified in its eight fluted Ionic columns at the east entrance and another four at the south entrance.
Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse – 500 Captain Armours Way, Jupiter, FL, 33469, 561-747- 8380,
• Due to many shipwrecks, in 1852, the Florida Lighthouse Board recommended a lighthouse be constructed near Jupiter Inlet, the light
of which would warn sailors to avoid
the offshore shoa l.
• Congress authorized the construction
of the lighthouse in 1853 and the project was assigned to Lieutenant George Gordon Meade of the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers.
• Meade selected the site and drew up the
original design for the lighthouse. His
successor, Lieutenant William F. Reynolds, improved the original design by adding height and a double wall. The site was a part of Fort Jupiter Reservation
established during the First Seminole War (See Section 2 – Our Military History,
Page 63).
• The Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse was completed and officially lit on July 10, 1860. Its
light beam could be seen from a range of 17 -25 miles on a ship at sea.
• From 1860 to 1939, more than 70 different lighthouse keepers served at the
Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse. Three keepers served at one time to keep it
illuminated. They were responsible for keeping the lighthouse’s lamp full of fuel,
winding the mechanism that turned the lens, and keeping watch through the
night, in addition to general maintenance of the lighthouse and its grounds.
• The lighthouse was painted red around 1910 , as humidity and sea air had
discolored the brick.
• In 1905, the U.S. Navy established a U.S. Naval Wireless Telegraph Station on
Fort Jupiter Reservation. It was part of a chain of coastal stations primarily used
as a communication station . In 1929, a Radio Compass Station was established
by the Navy to monitor distress signals , as well as naval ship and aircraft
frequencies, broadcast weather information , and served as a navigational aid.
Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse
Discover The Palm Beaches
remained keepers of the lighthouse , until it was fully automated in 1987.
• That same year, the Navy’s Radio Compass Station was transformed into
Station J, a secret station built to intercept radio messages from German
U-boats to help the U.S. military find and destroy them. (See Section 2 – Our
Military History, Page 63)
• The Air Force established Jupiter Auxiliary Air Force Base in 1951, with tracking
facilities on the north side of Beach Road and personnel housed at the former
Station J. The base tracked missile test launches from Cape Canaveral as part of
the Atlantic or Eastern Missile Range. In 1954, the Air Force contracted
operations of the range to civilians. Today, the Jonathan Dickinson Missile
Tracking Annex , the site’s successor established in the 1980s, can be seen from
the top of the lighthouse.
• In 2008, the Jupiter Lighthouse Reservation was designated as the Jupiter Inlet
Lighthouse Outstanding Natural Area (See Section 9 – Our Climate &
Natural Assets, Page 130). Ownership of the lighthouse and the former Coast
Guard station were transferred to the Bureau of Land Management in 2019.
• The lighthouse remains an active public aid to navigation.
• The non -profit Loxahatchee River Historical Society opened a lighthouse
museum on the site in 1973.
• Since 1994, LRHS has served as the stewards and keepers of the Jupiter
Light house , while also allowing the public access. Discover It: Jupiter Inlet
Lighthouse & Museum – ( See the Attractions Section,
Page 174)
Little Red Schoolhouse – 2185 S. Ocean Blvd., Palm Beach, FL, 33480, 561- 832-0731,
• Built in 1886, the Little Red Schoolhouse was the first schoolhouse built in
southeast Florida . It was located on Lake Trail about one mile north of Royal
Poinciana Bridge .
• Children arrived by boat, bike, or on foot from all around Lake Worth. By the
1890s, the enrollment was 35 students from many pioneer families , including:
Dimick, Maddock, and Reese.
Little Red Schoolhouse
rg/visit/little -red-schoolhouse
Palm Beach . As the nearby Phipps estate expanded, the schoolhouse became
part of the estate gro unds and was eventually used as tool shed by John S. “Jay”
Shaffer Phipps .
• In 1959, it was determined that it needed to be moved to make way for a North
Lake Way extension.
• In 1960, the Gardener’s Society of Palm Beach refurbished the building and
moved it to Phipps Ocean Park , its current location. Today, it is used for The
Preservation Foundation of Palm Beach’s Living History Program, where local schoolchildren are able to get a glimpse of what it was like to attend school in
the 1890s .
Mar -a-Lago – 1100 S. Ocean Blvd., Palm Beach, FL, 33480
• Completed in 1927, Mar -a-Lago was built by cereal heiress , Marjorie
Merriweather Post, who had inherited the Postum Cereal Company from her
father. For much of her life, she was known as the richest woman in America.
• Sitting on a 20- acre site bordered by the Atlantic Ocean on one side and the
Intracoastal Waterway on the other, t he mansion was built for $7 million
.
• The estate’s name comes from the fact that the property extends the entire width of Palm Beach, between the two bodies of water. Mar-a-Lago means
“sea to lake” in Spanish.
• Upon her death, Post willed the home to the U.S. government , with the
intention that it be used as a presidential warm -weather retreat . However, the
government returned the home to the Post Foundation in 1981, citing its high
maintenance costs .
• In 1985, Donald J. Trump
purchased the estate for $5 million. In 1995, he turned the property into the Mar -a-Lago Club , a member -only private club. The Trump family maintains a
private residence in a closed -off area of the house and grounds.
• From 2017-2021, he served as the 45
th President of the United States. He and his
family have considered Mar -a-Lago their primary residence since 2019 .
Mar -a-Lago
storage. -
prod/media/afs:Medium:0495
79967588/3000.jpeg
com/about
• In 1913, Delray Elementary was the first structure
to be built , with Delray High School built in 1925 to accommodate a growing
population.
• When, in 1949, a new high school was built , both the elementary school and the
high school buildings were used by the elementary school.
• In the mid -1980s, a new elementary school was built .
• At that time, all of the older buildings at the Delray Elementary site were
abandoned by the Palm Beach County School Board.
• In late 1985, a group of citizens worked with the Delray Beach Historical Society
to preserve the buildings and turn them into something that would jumpstart
the revitalization of Delray Beach’s downtown.
• By 1986, the site was incorporated as Old School Square, and restoration began.
• In 1990, the restored elementary school building opened as the Cornell Museum
of Art. And, in 1993, the Crest Theatre opened.
• By 1998, the restoration of the classrooms was completed.
• Today the Old School Square 6-acre campus is a historic cultural arts c omplex in
the heart of Downtown Delray Beach.
Palm Beach County Historic C ourthouse – 300 N. Dixie Hwy., West Palm Beach, FL,
33401, 561-832-4264, -beach -county -
historic -courthouse
• The Palm Beach County Courthouse was built in 1916 to house all of the county’s governmental offices , including the jail. It
was designed with a granite base, brick and
stone facades, and tall limestone columns.
The county government quickly needed more room, and an addition of similar design was added in 1927. The two
buildings were connected with usable
rooms in 1955.
• In a 1969 expansion, the Neoclassical
façade was covered in brick .
• In 1995, a new county courthouse was built across the street and the old courthouse was slated for
demolition .
Palm Beach County
Historic Courthouse
pbchistory.org
building and demolish only the additions, keeping the integrity of the original
building. In this process, the brick façade was removed in 2008 .
• The building is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
• Discover It: Today, the building is home to a few county offices and the Richard
and Pat Johnson Palm Beach County History Museum and the Historical Society
of Palm Beach County – pbchistory.org
Sea Gull Cottage – 60 Cocoa nut Row, Palm Beach, FL, 33406
• Considered today as the “oldest existing house in Palm Beach ,” the home was
completed in 1886 and was known as “McCormick’s Cottage.” This Queen Anne shingle-style cottage was built just north of its present location. Businessman Robert R. McCormick paid $10,000 for the land and $30,000 for the house. It was known as the “showplace along the shores” of Lake Worth.
• In 1893, Henry Morrison Flagler purchased the home as his first Palm Beach winter residence, until he completed his adjacent mansion, Whitehall, in 1902.
• In 1913, Flagler moved the home from lakeside to oceanfront , where it became
one of The Breakers Hotel rental cottages. Here it acquired the name Sea Gull
Cottage.
• Threatened with demolition, in 1984, the Preservation Foundation of Palm Beach rescued the cottage and, again, relocated it. Today, Sea Gull Cottage sits on the
Royal Poinciana Chapel grounds ne ar its original lakefront location .
Sunset Lounge – 609 8
th St., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401
• The history of the Sunset Lounge building reflects a wide variety of entertainment in West Palm Beach’s historic northwest region.
• In 1926, businessman Robert Saunders opened the property as a garage and gas station. A few years later, he shifted the building’s focus to the Sunset Roof
Garden and Grill on the second floor.
• From 1933 to 1948, the Sunset Royal e nightclub operated in a building that had
been renovated to include a first -floor bar and lounge and a second -floor
ballroom, with a mezzanine level and elevated stage.
• In 1942, the Sunset Auditorium was advertised as the largest fireproof dance hall in the state.
• In the 1940s, the Sunset Lounge was one of the premier African American
entertainment venues , hosting famous Big Band entertainers such as Duke
Ellington, Count Basie, and Cab Calloway. In the 1960s, it featured jazz greats like
Louis Armstrong, Ray Charles, and Ella Fitzgerald. In the 1970s, performers James
Brown, Dizzy Gillespie, and Ike and Tina Turner excited audiences here.
closed in 2018.
• The building is currently being redeveloped by the West Palm Beach Community
Redevelopment Agency . The nearly $20 million renovation will include a
new restaurant, rooftop garden, new parking garage, valet parking, and more.
For more information, see .
Whitehall
– 1 Whitehall Way, Palm Beach, FL, 33480, 561- 655-2833,
• Completed in 1902, Henry Flagler built Whitehall for his wife -to-be Mary Lily
Kenan . The Flaglers used it as their winter residence.
• Flagler hired the same architects that
designed his Hotel Ponce de Leon in St. Augustine. The architects designed a 75-room, 100,000 square foot Gilded Age mansion . The facade of the building
has massive marble columns and a red barrel tiled roof. The home’s two floors
are built around a central courtyard. Besides the public rooms on the first floor,
the house was designed with 12 guestrooms, rooms for house servants, and an office for Flagler and his secretary.
• It is located on the eastern bank of Lake Worth Beach with Flagler’s Hotel Royal Poinciana located to the north and The Breakers to the east.
• In a March 1902 article, the New York Herald described Whitehall as “More
wonderful than any palace in Europe, grander and more magnificent than any
other private dwelling in the world…”
• The Flaglers enjoyed a social life at Whitehall, givin g weekly musical programs
featuring their resident organist, as well as professional artists. Attendees for
their many social gatherings were the famous people of the day , including the
Duke and Duchess of Manchester, actor Joseph Jefferson, Woodrow Wilson, and
John Jacob Astor. Sunset Lounge
community -redevelopment -
agency/downtown- city-
center -cra/projects/sunset -
lounge- historic -northwest
partly as a result of a fall at Whitehall. Mary Lily remained at Whitehall until her death in 1917, after which her niece, Louise Lewis , inherited the home.
• Lewis ultimately sold the home to a group of investors who turned it into a
hotel , building a 300-room, ten -story addition on the west side of the building.
• In 1959, Flagler’s granddaughter formed a foundation that bought the house as
a home for the Henry Morrison Flagler Museum , which opened in 1960.
• In 1963, the top ten floors of the hotel addition were taken down. Discover It:
Henry Morrison Flagler Museum – (
See the Attractions
Section, Page 174)
Y
esteryear Village – South Florida Fairgrounds, 9067 Southern Blvd., West Palm Beach,
FL, 33411, 561- 793-0333,
• Yesteryear Village is a living
history park featuring a collection
of early, original, and replicated buildings that r eflect life in early
Palm Beach County .
• The buildings include an old school, a farm, a blacksmith shop, a general store, and several houses.
• The Sally Bennett Big Band Hall of Fame
Museum is also located on the site. It is the
only Big Band museum in existence in the U.S.
Yesteryear Village
Schoolroom
Discover The Palm Beaches
Whitehall
Juno Beach Pier – 14776 U.S. Hwy 1, Juno Beach, FL, 33408
• When built In 1950, the Juno Beach Pier was the only pier between Cape
Canaveral and Palm Beach. It was built by Bessemer Properties.
• In 1977, it was purchased by Wally and Penny Sheltz who remodeled the pier’s two-story building. They sold admissions, food, drinks, bait, and tackle , with
bathrooms downstairs and an apartment upstairs.
• Over the years, the pier began to deteriorate. I n 1984, 20- foot storm waves
destroyed the center of the structure. Later in 1985, the town’s fire department
burned down the two -story building in a training exercise. The original pier was
dismantled in 1986.
• In 1999, the town rebuilt the pier as a 990- foot t -shaped pier.
• Today it remains a popular location for fishing. The full-service Pier House is
home to a snack bar, gift store, and a bait and tackle shop that also rents poles.
-pier/#experiences
Royal Park Bridge – Across the Lake Worth Lagoon between West Palm Beach and Palm
Beach connecting Lakeview Avenue to Royal Palm Way
• The first Royal Park Bridge was built as a toll bridge in 1911 by Palm Beach’s first
mayor, Elisha Newton “Cap” Dimick (See Section 3 – Our Influential Citizens, Page
71). It was built to provide access to the Royal Park Addition subdivision, which
he had invested in with a few business partners. The toll on the bridge was a quarter per vehicle, plus a nickel for each additional passenger.
• In 1920, the original bridge was sold to the county and a replacement bridge was constructed in 1921. During construction, a pier near the Palm Beach end gave
way and much of the new bridge collapsed. It was rebuilt and opened in 1924.
• In 1959, the bridge was widened, and the swing span was replaced with a lift
opening.
• In 2004, a $50 million bridge was completed, which is the bridge we use today.
Royal Park Bridge
new -look -at-
the-royal -park -bridge/
• The construction of the clock was part of a $ 14 million makeover to the stylish
shopping mecca Worth Ave in 2010 that also included wider sidewalks and palm
trees lining up along the sidewalks. The clock symbolizes the fact that time may
have changed, but that the half -a-mile Worth Avenue, called the Avenue by
Palm Beachers , will always be an ongoing commitment to elegant
consumerism .41
• The clock tower is designed in Spanish -style architecture with a four -story -high
truncated pyramidal top. Each side of the tower has a clock face with Roman
numerals and carved stone palm fronds .
• The clock is also intended to be a monument to the Palm Beach Pier, which stood on that site before it was destroyed by a 1930 hurricane.
Worth Avenue Clock Tower