The people that came before us helped build our area to what it is today. Through this section, we chronicle their influence.
Some Famous Natives & Residents of The Palm Beaches
• John F. Kennedy – U.S. President
• Donald J. Trump – U.S. President
• Sylvester Stallone – Actor
• Burt Reynolds – Actor
• Kevin James – Actor
• Drew Garrett – Actor
• Allen Covert – Actor
• Jimmy Buffet – Singer
• Ariana Grande – Singer
• Rod Stewart – Singer
• John Lennon – Singer
• Celine Dion – Singer
• Kid Rock – Singer
• Alan Jackson – Singer
• Oliva Newton -John – Actor and Singer
• Perry Como – Actor and Singer
• Nick Saban – Former Football Coach, Miami Dolphins and University of Alabama
• John “Chummer” McCranels – U.S. Amateur Surfing Champion
• Dara Torres – Olympic Gold Medal- Winning Swimmer
• Otis Anderson – Professional Football Player
• Chad Johnson – Professional Football Player
• Joe Namath – Professional Football Player
• Tiger Woods – Professional Golfer
• Brooks Koepka – Professional Golfer
• Greg Norman – Professional Golfer
• Ricki Fowler – Professional Golfer
• Johnny Bench – Professional Baseball Player
• Steffi Graf – Professional Tennis Player
• Michael Jordan – Professional Basketball Player
• Bobby Orr – Professional Hockey Player
• Tico Torres – Drummer in the Band Bon Jovi
Section 3 – Our Influential Citizens
• Brent Musberger – Sports Broadcaster
• Carrot To p – Comedian
• Ogden Mills “Dinny” Phipps – Thoroughbred Owner and Breeder
• James Patterson – Author
the-jupiter -area/70048007007/ , -m essi-
coming- celebs -whove -lived -in-boca -raton -delray -beach/70437295007/ , -p alm-
beach -3128.php
Our Influential Citizens
Edward Riley “ E.R.” Bradley
• Before coming to Palm Beach, E. R. Bradley is said
to have been a cowboy, a gold prospector, and an
acquaintance of Wyatt Earp and Billy the Kid .
• He opened his Beach Club, an illegal gambling hall, in 1898 on Royal Poinciana Way in Palm Beach.
The club attracted tycoons from around the U.S.
who spent and bet lavishly. The club became the
social center for the elite citizens and visitors to
Palm Beach.
• A physician suggested he get more outdoor activity, so he decided to give horse racing a try.
It’s unclear whether this outdoor activity actually
prolonged his life, but he was very successful as a horse owner. By 1921, he had his first Kentucky Derby winner in Behave Yourself .
Bradley won the Kentucky Derby four times, the Preakness Stakes three times,
and the Belmont Stakes twice.
• Despite his gambling reputation, he was also known as a philanthropist and is
said to have staged an annual race at his Idle Hour Stock Farm to benefit orphans , in addition to donating to other causes.
• He eventually donated the Beach Club to the Town of Palm Beach, with the caveat that it be demolished and turned into a park. Today, Bradley Park is
located just east of the Lake Trail on the north side of Royal Poinciana Way. Bradley was also instrumental in donating the West Palm Beach County Club to the City of West Palm Beach to be used as a municipal course.
Edward Riley “E.R.” Bradley
Historical Society Palm Beach County
• Elisha Newton “Cap” Dimick is known for
building Palm Beach’s first hotel and being
the city’s first mayor . He was called “Cap”
because he liked to wear hats .
• Dimick’s family came to farm Palm Beach in
1876, growing sweet potatoes, pumpkins, and pineapples.
• In 1880, Dimick added eight rooms to his home and opened the area’s first hotel called the Coc oanut Grove House .
• In 1890, Dimick served as a state
representative and in 1896, he served as a
state senator. He was also involved in starting
the region’s first bank , Dade County State Bank , in 1893.
• In 1908, Dimick formed the Palm Beach Improvement Company with his nephew
Harvey G. Geer, and partners George W. Jonas and Otto Kubin. They purchased
160 acres of swamp land that stretched from the ocean to the lake and created
the Royal Park Addition. The tract extended from north of today’s Royal Palm
Way to just south of today’s Worth Avenue. They filled the marshes with sand hauled from a nearby oceanside ridge on tracked dump carts they’d built. They laid 4.5 miles of streets with rock they blasted fro m a nearby quarry. The
installation of water lines, sewers, electrical systems, and telephone lines
followed, and Royal Palm Way, the project’s grand entrance, took shape.
17 Initial
sales were slow.
• In 1911, Dimick and his wife, Louise Semple Clarke, gathered 31 male property
owners in the area and signed the charter incorporating the town of Palm Beach. Cap became the town’s first mayor.
• That same year, his development company built the first Royal Park Bridge (See
Appendix 1 – Our Landmarks, Page 239 ) to provide easy access to the Royal Park
Addition.
• In 1912, Dimick hired Lewis Henry Green, a wealthy real estate agent from California, to promote the Royal Park Addition. Green utilized automobiles to
give tours of the property and promoted it as “the millionaire’s playground.”
With the added promotion and improvements to the neighborhood, including streetlamps and exotic landscaping , the development sold out in 1917. Discover
It: Royal Palm Way in Palm Beach is home to the Elisha “Cap” Di mick Statue –
401-435 Royal Palm Way, Palm Beach, FL, 33480
• Dimick’s grandson, Claude D imick Reese, also served as Palm Beach mayor for 18
years and as a council member for 38 years.
Elisha Newton “Cap” Dimick
and Family
Historical Society Palm Beach County
• Harry DuBois was a pioneer of Palm Beach County. He grew up in New Jersey but
spent summers in Florida, from the age of 16 on. He met his wife, Susan Sanders,
in Jupiter, where he had been serving as a lifeguard. He built today’s DuBois
Pioneer Home in 1891 for Susan,
who said she wanted to live on a hill. The couple had four children: John, Henry,
Anna, and Neil. When they were of age, the children took a boat to school .
• The family were farmers and fishermen . In 1910, DuBois used wood from the old
lifeguard station nearby to construct more than 600 beehives, and he became very successful at it, making 90,000 pounds of honey in one year at his peak.
Alfonso Fanjul and J. Pepe Fanjul
• The Fanjul family founded Florida Crystals Corporation in 1960. The sugarcane
farming and milling company is located in West Palm Beach. The company owns
and operates two sugar mills, a sugar refinery, a rice mill, a packaging and distribution center, and the largest biomass renewable power plant in North
America.
• They were instrumental, along with other Everglades farmers , in forming the
influential Florida Sugar Cane League, as well as joint marketing cooperatives for
the sale of raw sugar and molasses . In 1998, the Fanjul brothers partnered with
the Sugar Cane Growers Cooperative to purchase ASR Group, a sugar refinery in Yonkers, New York . Today that company is the largest sugar cane refiner and
marketer in the world.
• In addition, Florida Crystals also pioneered the production of rice and organic sugar cane in South Florida. It is the only producer of organic cane sugar products
that are grown, harvested, and milled in the U.S.
Susan & Harry
DuBois
/picture-
gallery/news/2023/11/27/
florida -history -dubois -
pioneer -home- in-jupiter -
is-turning -
125/71703637007/
education services for the residents of Pahokee and the surrounding area.
Henry Morrison Flagler
• Henry Flagler is known as the founder of tourism
in The Palm Beaches. As the developer of the
Florida East Coast Railway, Flagler built the rail line and luxury hotels up and down the east
coast of Florida, bringing many tourists and new residents to the area.
• Flagler was born in New York. His first job was working in a grain business in Ohio for his mother’s
relatives, where he met his first wife, Mary
Harkness. They were married in 1853.
• In 1867, Flagler became a partner in Rockefeller,
Andres & Flagler , an oil company that became
Standard Oil in 1870. He worked as the secretary/
treasurer of the company.
• When he first visited Florida in 1878, he had already become quite wealthy from his work with Standard Oil Company with partner John D. Rockefeller, Sr. Impressed by Florida’s temperate winter climate, Flagler decided to remove himself from the day -to-day operations of Standard Oil to focus on
developing railroads and resorts in Florida.
• His first wife died in 1881, and he remarried to Ida Alice Shourds in New York in 1883.
• Flagler came to Florida in 1885 to develop the area around St. Augustine and
build the Hotel Ponce de Leon. During this process, he realized that the state
Alfonso and
J. Pepe Fanjul
o-fanjul -and-j- pepe- fanjul/
Henry Flagler
Historical Society Palm Beach County
converting them all to run on standard -gauge tracks. Initially purchasing the
Jacksonville, St. Augustine, and Halifax Railroad that served the northeastern
portion of the state, Flagler developed hotels along the railroad lines to provide
tourists a place to stay who rode the train. He continued to purchase railroads
running both north and south of St. Augustine to incorporate into what eventually became the Florida East Coast Railway. As he extended the
railroads south, he purchased land to develop hotels along the railroad lines.
• As previously mentioned, his first hotel in Palm Beach County was the Hotel
Royal Poinciana, built in 1894, followed by The Breakers (See Section 1 – Our
Area’s Early History, Page 45 and Appendix 1 – Our Landmarks, Page 239).
• In 1895, his wife Ida was institutionalized and declared legally insane. In 1901, he divorced Ida and married Mary Lily Kenan.
• He also built Whitehall for his wife,
Mary.
Zora Neale Hurston
• Zora Neale Hurston is known for her
anthropology work and for her novels, short stories, and plays that often -depicted African
American life in the South.
• She was born in Notasulga, Alabama, but her family moved to Eatonville, Florida when she
was still young. Her father became one of the
town’s first mayors.
• She attended Howard University where she founded the school’s newspaper , The Hilltop .
• In 1925, she received a scholarship to Barnard College in New York City, where she graduated
three years later with a degree in anthropology .
While there, she became friends with other well-
known writers, like Langston Hughes and Countee Cullen, and joined the black cultural
renaissance taking place in Harlem . In the 1930s, she collaborated with Hughes
to write a play entitled Mule Bone , a comedy about the African American life.
• One of her most popular works was a fictional story entitled Their Eyes Were Watching God , which followed the life of Janie Crawford and partially took place
in The Glades . In the book, Janie’s second husband owned a store in The Glades
and depicts a devastating hurricane, which historically references the Lake Okeechobee hurricane of 1928 . It was unusual at the time to focus on the Zora Neale Hurston
-Neale- Hurston
studying Black culture .
• Hurston was not only an author. She also wanted to educate others about the
arts. In 1934, she established a school of dramatic arts at Bethune-Cookman
College in Daytona Beach. She also worked as a drama teacher at North Carolina
College for Negroes at Durham.
• Although she received some acclaim for her works, Hurston was often underpaid and remained in poverty. At her death, she was living at the St. Lucie County Welfare Home. Although her works were not well -known during her life, they
continue to inspire writers today and she is considered one of the best writers
of the 20
th century.
Joseph Jefferson
• In addition to being a close friend with Henry Flagler, Joseph Jefferson was a world -renowned
theater actor of the time.
• He began visiting Palm Beach in the 1890s, staying at the Royal Poinciana. In the late 1890s,
he built the first electric plant and an ice plant
for West Palm Beach.
• The actor also owned six houses, the Jefferson
Hotel on Clematis Street, a two -story brick
building that housed six stores, and a store across that street that housed the Anthony
Brothers retailers.
• Jefferson was also known for his benevolence and often held performances to fundraise for many worthy causes .
H. Irwin Levy
• In 1952, H. Irwin Levy and his wife moved to The Palm Beaches, where he worked as a lawyer, handling major business and real estate restructurings , taking
several companies public.
• He also founded his busines s Cenville Communities, w hich developed Century
Village in West Palm Beach and two other locations, plus Wynmoor Village .
Cenville Communities was the largest builder of condominiums in the U.S. at one point and built 37,000 homes across South Florida.
• He was very active in Jewry and helped build The Palm Beaches into a thriving Jewish community . He was a founding leader of the Jewish Federation of Palm Joseph Jefferson
Historical Society Palm Beach County
School, Joseph L. Morse Geriatric Center, the Kravis Center for the Performing Arts, and the Palm Beach Fellowship of Christians and Jews. He was also the past
president of Temple Beth El in West Palm Beach.
• Levy was also an ardent supporter of Israel, securing $1.6 billion in U.S. grants to
The United Israel Appeal for The Jewish Agency for Israel to rescue nearly one
million Jews from the former Soviet Union and Ethiopia .
• Among other awards, he was named the Palm Beach Jewish Times Man of the Century.
John Donald MacArthur
• John MacArthur is known for developing much of The Palm Beach es. Born in
Pennsylvania, his family moved frequently, as his father was a Baptist preacher
and missionary. At 16, he quit school and moved to Chicago where he worked
with an older brother in the insurance industry. While working at his brother’s
insurance company, he met and married Catherine Hyland, and within one year,
he had sold more than $1 million in insurance.
• In 1928, he purchased Marquette Life Insurance . In 1938, he bought Bankers Life
and Casualty Company, which was very successful due to his use of mass
marketing through door -to-door salesmen . This kept costs lower and made
insurance coverage affordable to the common consumer. By 1956, Bankers Life was the largest health and life insurance company in the U.S. Catherine’s role in the business was to work behind the scenes, tracking details and accounts.
• In 1958, the couple moved to Florida, where they purchased more than 100,000
acres of land across the state . They purchased the Colonnades Hotel on the
south end of Singer Island and moved into one of the rooms. MacArthur used a table in the Colonnades Coffee Shop as his office, and it is said he was often
H. Irvin Levy
Historical Society Palm Beach County
billionaire.”18 He developed much of the city of Palm Beach Gardens.
• The MacArthurs were also philanthropists ,
donating to the North Palm Beach YMCA and Palm
Beach Atlantic University. They also allowed
charities to use the ballroom at the Colonnades for free for fundraisers. The couple also created the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation to
allow their money to go toward deserving
charities. Grants from the foundation total more
than $7 billion since its inception, funding more
than 10,000 organizations and projects, including
the John D. MacArthur Beach State Park and
Amnesty International.
Sidney Maddock
• In the early 1900s, Sidney Maddock started the Palm
Beach Pinery , a large plantation that shipped pineapples from Palm Beach to
London. During this time, Maddock also built the Olympic and Dixie movie theaters and was part of several Clematis Street businesses in West Palm Beach.
• His wife, Lucie, was known as a suffragette and was involved in several women’s
rights movements. In 1920, t he women’s suffrage movement finally led to
women’s right to vote .
• In 1902, he built the Palm Beach Hotel , a 300 -room luxury hotel that was known
for its glamorous Ritz Gardens, which offered tea and drinks. A full orchestra played at the hotel each night for dance parties. Famous guests included
President Theodore Roosevelt and evangelist Ira Sankey.
• Unfortunately, in 1925, the hotel burned down, due to sparks from the adjacent
fire at The Breakers . Guests at the hotel had been outside watching The Breakers
fire and were barely able to get back to rescue their things before the Palm Beach Hotel burned to the ground.
• After the fire, Sidney and his wife left Palm Beach and moved to Brooklyn, New York. Today, the Palm Beach Biltmore Condominiums are on this site.
John D. MacArthur
/000044149/
• After serving as a country house architect on
Long Island, NY, Addison Mizner moved to Palm
Beach. In 1917, he met Paris Singer ,
the sewing machine heir and developer of Palm Springs. Singer was impressed with Mizner’s work and asked him to design his Everglades
Club .
• Mizner’s design for the Everglades Club introduced the Mediterranean style of
architecture to the area . The success of the
project led to other commissions from Palm
Beach high society . He became so popular that
he had to open his own workshops to create the
tiles, wrought iron fixtures, and cast -stone trim
that the Mediterranean style required. He later
also produced furniture for the homes and buildings he designed.
• In 1924, the City of Boca Raton was incorporated and appointed Mizner as the
city planner.
• In early 1925, Mizner formed the Mizner Development Corporation and
purchased 1,600 acres that contained approximately two miles of oceanfront. His plan was to build the Castillo del Rey , a huge oceanfront hotel that would include
golf courses, polo fields, elegant shopping streets, and luxurious mansions for
the wealthy of the world. His well -known investors included T. Coleman
du Pont, Elizabeth Arden, William K. and Harold Vanderbilt, Irving Berlin, and Paris Singer. Even before the resort was built, it was widely promoted, making it
Boca Raton’s hottest property . His company took in $2 million on the first day of
sales, along with an additional $2 million when he opened up a second set of lots.
• Mizner had pitched the hotel to Ritz-Carlton , which decided to take over the
design and building of the project themselves. This meant the building of the
hotel would be delayed. Mizner moved forward with his other plans to build
homes, streets, and administrative buildings for the development . He designed
the Camino Real, a 160-foot-wide boulevard, as the focal point for his new city.
He did begin building the boulevard but never actually completed it.
• He also decided to build a smaller hotel on his own. He built The Cloister Inn on
Lake Boca Raton, making most of the furnishings to save money and even using
his own furniture in some areas. The hotel proved his abilities as an architect and
designer. This hotel became The Boca Raton of today.
• By the fall of 1925, the land boom was beginning to slow down, and his investors began to back out. The additional burden of the hurricane, in September 1926, Addison Mizner
Historical Society Palm Beach County
was bankrupt. His former investor Clarence H. Geist purchased the assets of the company for $71,500, assuming approximately $7 million in debt.
• Mizner continued taking on architectural projects in the area, but he never became wealthy.
George Morikami
• Sukeji “George” Morikami was 19 years old when he emigrated to the Yamato
community from Miyazu, Japan in 1906 .
He was originally an indentured laborer, working to pay off his passage to America.
• He settled into the community of Yamato ,
a Japanese colony located between Boca Raton and Delray Beach established in the early 20
th century. Yamato is an old name
for Japan, which means “large, beautiful
land.”
• By 1906, Yamato’s population was up to approximately 50, with its own post office and rail station. The residents were mainly bachelor fruit farmers.
• Many residents began to leave in the late 1930s, due to a fruit blight and competition from less expensive fruit being imported from Cuba.
• During World War II, Boca Raton Army Air Field was built. As more land
was needed to house the soldiers, most of the remaining residents in adjacent Yamato Colony were forced to give up the land. George Morikami continued
living the in village even after everyone left.
• After World War II, Morikami slowly built his fortune and amassed 200 acres of
land in Yamato . He could have become a rich man by selling the land but,
instead, he donated it to Palm Beach County to create a park. Discover It: Today,
that land is home to exhibits featuring the Japanese culture of the Yamato Colony ,
as part of the Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens – morikami.org
George Morikami
Historical Society Palm Beach County
• James Patterson , an American author, is best known
for his fictional book series about characters, Alex
Cross and Jane Effing Smith, as well as the Women’s
Murder Club, and Maximum Ride. He has also penned non-fiction works about the Kennedys, John Lennon, and Princess Diana , in addition to military
heroes, police officers, and emergency room nurses. He has also co-authored books with Bill Clinton and
Dolly Parton and has written an autobiography.
• Patterson and his wife have lived in Palm Beach since 1998.
• Patterson is a philanthropist, donating more than one million books to students, totaling $7.25
million to school and classroom libraries through out the U.S. , and
$2.1 million to independent bookstores and
employees . Patterson also supports after -school
reading programs at four Palm Beach County middle
schools where up to 1,000 books have been donated.
• The Patterson Family Foundation has given more than $7 million in scholarships
to students at 24 different colleges, including Florida Atlantic University and the
University of Florida. Additionally, the Pattersons support the Alexander W.
Dreyfoos School of the Arts in West Palm Beach, sponsoring events and learning programs.
John “Jay” Shaffer Phipps
• Jay Phipps was a businessman and well -known philanthropist in Palm Beach.
Before moving to Palm Beach from Pittsburgh, he was the former director of U.S.
Steel , which his father owned in partnership with Andrew Carnegie. He also
served as director of the Guarantee Trust Company, W.R. Grace and Company,
and the International Paper Company.
• Prompted by the 1920’s , Phipps purchased old pineapple fields and other property to develop lots for private homes that would become the El Cid
Neighborhood.
• In addition to developing the El Cid Neighborhood, today’s El Cid Historic District,
he also built polo fields in Florida,
Virginia, and New York. He also owned several thoroughbred racehorses . James Patterson
th.
6bf4fa1054527ab0e91a?rik=BOtU4
4ZqyyB6lA&riu=http%3a%2f%2fcdn
2.mhpbooks.com%2f2016%2f03%2
f5268143326_d665277df9_o.jpg&e
and the Seminole Club.
• Phipps Ocean Park sits on land that was once the private beach of the Phipps
family . In the 1920s, the park was opened to the public and became a popular
destination for both locals and tourists.
Lilly Pulitzer
• Lilly Pulitzer was a designer, known worldwide for her colorful dresses and
resort wear. She was born Lillian Lee McKim in Roslyn, New York, the great-
granddaughter of Standard Oil partner, Jabez A. Bostwick.
• She married Peter Pulitzer of the Pulitzer Prize family. They eloped in Baltimore
and moved to Palm Beach when she was 21, where she quickly became a popular
Palm Beach socialite.
• By 1958, however, she was a new mom and felt like she was going to have a
nervous breakdown . A doctor suggested she needed a sense of purpose, so she
opened a juice stand off Worth Avenue using the oranges from her husband’s
orchard. She quickly discovered that the orange juice stained her clothes, so she
worked with a dressmaker to create a colorful easy dress that would hide the splashes.
• She discovered she loved designing clothing and began to look for more vibrant
prints from which to make her dresses. They became popular with the famous around Palm Beach.
• Lilly’s school friend, First Lady Jackie Kennedy , came to visit in 1962. Shortly
after, the First Lady appeared on the cover of Life Magazine in one of Pulitzer’s
designs . As Kennedy was considered to be one of the most stylish women in the
world , women around the country decided they wanted a Lilly Pulitzer dress. This
marked the beginning of her American Resort Wear line, and she ditched the lemonade stand.
• By 1963, Life was publishing a story on her line of dresses that were available in
boutiques nationwide. Lilly Pulitzer
176765/remembering -lilly-
pulitzer -5-queen -prep/
line of menswear. By 1984, the company had spread itself too thin, and it filed for bankruptcy . It was revived in the 1990s by Sugartown Worldwide Industries
who sold it to Oxford Industries in 2010. The company is now headquartered in
King of Prussia, Pennsylvania.
Burt Reynolds
• Burt Reynolds was a high school and college football player and a famous actor. He was born in Lansing, Michigan, but was raised in Palm Beach
County , attending Palm Beach High School and
Florida State University.
• After a football injury ended his playing of the game, he attended Palm Beach Junior College and performed in several theatre productions ,
including the play, Outward Bound, for which he
won a Florida State Drama Award .
• This award helped him secure a scholarship to work in Hyde Park Playhouse, a summer theatre in
New York City . Here, he met actress Joanne Woodward , who helped him find an
agent.
• From 1959 to 1961, he played the character Ben Fraser on an NBC TV show called Riverboat. Throughout the 1960s, he played characters on several different
television shows including, The Everglades, Gunsmoke, Perry Mason, and The
Twilight Zone.
• In the 1970s, he moved back to the Jupiter area , working on projects in
Hollywood , California, as necessary.
• In 1973, he dabbled in singing , making an album called Ask Me What I Am.
He also sang a duet with Dolly Parton for the movie, The Best Little Whorehouse
in Texas.
• The role he is most famous for came in 1997 , when he played Bandit in the movie
Smokey and the Bandi t, with Sally Field, Jackie Gleason, and Jerry Reed. He
repeated the role in 1980 in Smokey and the Bandit II . In 1997, he also turned
down the role of Han Solo in Star Wars .
• From 1989 to 1990, he starred as B.L. Stryker in a series of the same name, which
was filmed on location in Jupiter and throughout Palm Beach County.
• In 1990, h e earned an Emmy Award for his role of Wood Newton in the TV
series Evening Shade .
• From this time until his death, he continued to act, direct, and produce.
Burt Reynolds
Historical Society Palm Beach County
• Paris Singer was a famous developer of Palm Beach
and the son of Isaac Singer, the Singer sewing
machine mogul. He was named after the city of
Paris, in which he was born.
• In 1918, Singer began buying property on both sides
of Lake Worth. He visited his Palm Beach properties
often and decided to offer Addison Mizner the job of
designing his elegant Everglades Club . The design
and the club were a huge success.
• As previously mentioned, Singer often took his
friends to picnic on the island, just north of Palm
Beach, which they began to call Singer’s Island . The
name stuck.
• In 1925, Singer again worked with Mizner on a plan to build two luxurious hotels
on Singer Island . The hotel on the south end of the island was to be the Paris
Singer Hotel, and the one on the north end would be the Blue Heron , with a 36 -
hole golf course. Singer was very eager to get started and it is said that he began
building the Blue Heron before Mizner was even done with the plans.
• The Florida land boom began to slow and after the hotel’s service wing was completed, building stopped. Singer’s plan had been to finance the hotel from
the sale of lots throughout the island; however, the lots were not selling as well
as anticipated.
• The 1928 hurricane and the 1929 stock market crash put an end to the structure, which would stand for 14 years before it was razed in 1940 .
• Today, the Singer Oceanfront Resort is located on this land.
• Singer’s financial troubles continued after construction stopped on the Blue
Heron. The Everglades Club went into receivership because Singer was unable to pay the loans he’d taken out, using the club as collateral.
• In 1928, Singer left Palm Beach and ultimately moved to his Moorish house in Saint -Jean -Cap-Ferrat, France with his wife, Joan Balsh.
Solomon D. Spady
• Solomon Spady was an African American teacher, scientist, and administrator .
Born in Cape Charles, Virginia, Spady attended Hampton Normal and Agricultural
Institute and taught there his first year after
graduating in 1912.
• Spady soon got involved in the New Farmers of America, the largest Black farm
youth organization in the wor ld. It is through this organization that he became
Paris Singer
Historical Society Palm Beach County
the most prominent Black scientists of the 20th century.
• In 1922, Spady accepted a position teaching in Delray Beach at Delray County
Training School, which also required him to be principal. He was the third African
American public -school teacher/principal working in Delray Beach.
• In 1926, he married Jessie B. Green . They built a Mission Revival- style, two -story
stucco home on today’s NW 5
th Avenue that was considered to be more luxurious
than the other primarily wooden structures in the area. Discover It: Today, the
home houses a museum of African American history in Delray Beach called the
Spady Cultural Heritage Museum – ( See Section 5 –
Our Cultural Heritage, Page 92)
• D uring his tenure at the Delray County Training School , it grew from offering
classes in first through eighth grade to offering classes through 12th grade, with
enrollment tripling from approximately 100 students to more than 300. In 1937, the school was renamed George Washington Carver High School .
• In addition to traditional subjects, Spady also taught woodshop and agricultural
classes. His woodshop students painted the school, built steps, and repaired furniture and farm tools. His agricultural students cultivated crops and prepared them for sale to the public. His students won several state agricultural
championships and many of them went on to attend the Tuskegee Institute, the
Hampton Institute, Atlanta University, and Florida A & M, to name a few.
• Spady retired in 1957 and moved back to Cape Charles, Virginia.
• In 1958, Carver High School was moved to a new building, with the old building
becoming an elementary school named S.D. Spady Elementary.
• In 1999, the City of Delray Beach awarded Spady the Great Floridians 2000 Award. The award was presented to his family and a replica is on display in the
Spady Cultural Heritage Museum. Solomon D. Spady
Historical Society Palm Beach County
With 47 miles of pristine Atlantic Ocean coastline and stretches of golden sand to pick
from, naming the best beach in The Palm Beaches is impossible. Encourage visitors and
locals to view beach cams and beach conditions on Discover The Palm Beaches ’ website
at -conditions .
Atlantic Dunes Park – 1605 S. Ocean Blvd., Delray Beach, FL, 33483, 561- 243-7250,
• Atlantic Dunes Park is a great option for those looking for a quiet and seren e
beach, nestled in a raised, green -canopied area with a wooden walkway and
observation platform.
Bark Park Dog Beach – 3001 N. S tate Road A1A, Boca Raton, FL, 33487 , 561-393-7810,
-Beach -at-Spanish -River -Park
• Dogs are allowed to mingle on this beach , between lifeguard t owers 18 and 20,
during designated hours. Use of Bark Park Beach requires owners to clean up
after their pets and they must purchase a permit . For more information, use the
website link above.
Boynton Beach Oceanfront Park – 6415 N. Ocean Blvd., Boynton Beach, FL, 33435,
561-742-6775, - -Park
• This beach offers canopy -covered walkways and benches, a Brazilian -walnut
hardwood boardwalk, a playground, a concession stand, and a large sea turtle
sculpture. Umbrella and lounge chair rentals are also available.
Section 4 – Our Beaches
Bark Park Dog Beach
-
about -the-spanish- river -dog-beach/
discover.
• This beach park has picnic area, restrooms, and the availability of beach
wheelchairs for the sand .
Coral Cove Park – 19450 State Rd. 707, Tequesta, FL, 33469, 561-966-6600,
discover. -Cove.aspx
• Located in the northern part of the county, Coral Cove Park offers a quieter
beach with the benefit of great snorkeling and paddleboarding.
Delray Beach Municip al Beach – 340 S. Ocean Blvd., Delray Beach, FL, 33483,
561-243-7250,
• Located near Atlantic Avenue’s many al fresco bistros, pubs, and unique shops, this beach is a great combination for those who want some sand and sun along with the atmosphere of Atlantic Avenue . The beach also hosts a variety of
events throughout the year, which can be found on the City’s website at
.
DuBois Park – 19075 Dubois Rd., Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561-966-6600,
discover.
• Located at the mouth of Jupiter Inlet, this beach offers great views of the Jupiter
Lighthouse . In addition to a swimming area, this is a good place for kayakers and
jet skiers to start their trip through the Intracoastal Waterway or out to sea from
the marina slips located here. Canoers and kayakers also have access to the
Loxahatchee River from the park.
Delray Beach
Municipal Beach
Discover The Palm Beaches
FL, 33408, 561- 624-6950, macarthurbeach.org
• With almost two miles of pristine beachfront, this quiet sanctuary is The Palm
Beaches only state park. Activities include swimming, snorkeling, and ocean
fishing. For more information about other activities at the state park .
Juno Beach Park – 14775 State Road A1A, Juno Beach, FL, 33408, 561-966- 6600,
discover. -Beach.aspx
• In addition to swimming, pier fishing is popular , and the beach has a bait shop
and concession stand.
Jupiter Beach Park – 1375 Jupiter Beach Rd., Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561-966-6600,
discover. -Beach.aspx
• This smaller beach park offers a lot of activities. In addition to swimming in the
ocean, a lagoon offers a refreshing dip.
Jupiter Dog Beach – From beach accesses 26 north of Ocean Cay Park to 57 south of
Carlin Park, Palm Beach County, 561-746-5134,
-on-the -Beach
• The Jupiter Dog Beach is the only free dog beach in The Palm Beaches . It is open
from su nrise to sunset. Owners must clean up after their pets.
Lake Worth Municipal Beach – 10 S. Ocean Blvd., Lake Worth, FL, 33460, 561- 533-7313,
-complex
• Swimming and surfing are popular at this beach, as is dining at nearby Benn y’s on
the Beach r estaurant .
• Also nearby is the Lake Worth Beach Casino Building and Beach Complex .
The casino is a venue for weddings and special
events and offers breathtaking views of the Atlantic Ocean in the 3,000-square-
Juno Beach
Discover The Palm Beaches
the Casino building has become a favorite destination for tourists.
• Additionally, the adjacent Beach Complex features a n oceanfront park,
restrooms, and picnic facilities which complement the William O. Lockhart
Municipal Pier.
Loggerhead Park – 14200 U.S. Highway 1, Juno Beach, FL, 33408, 561-966- 6600,
discover.
• Visitors enjoy building sandcastles and body surfing at the beach at Loggerhead
Park. Home to Loggerhead Marinelife Center, the park is also a great place to see
the center’s resident sea turtles.
Ocean Reef Park – 3860 N. Ocean Blvd., Riviera Beach, FL, 33404, 561-966- 6600,
discover. -Reef.aspx
• The boardwalk on this wide beach goes through and along the dune ecosystem
located here. A picnic pavilion, grills, and single picnic tables are located within
the park.
Ocean Cay Park – 2188 Marcinski Rd., Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561- 966-6611,
discover. -Cay.aspx
• The beachfront here is large and tucked down below the dunes . The park has
plenty of open grassy space, volleyball courts, grills , and picnic tables.
Peanut Island – 6500 Peanut Island Rd., Riviera Beach, FL, 33404, 561- 845-4445,
discover. -Island.aspx
• This island is a family sanctuary featuring great snorkeling, pathways, overnight
camping, and swimming. The best way to access the beach is via water taxi stops
from nearby Sailfish Marina or Riviera Beach Marina or anchor your boat along
the shoreline.
Peanut Island
Discover The Palm Beaches
discover.
• This is a great place to kayak, snorkel, and scuba dive. The waters under the Blue
Heron Bridge and the one-of-a-kind Underwater Snorkel Trail make this a
premier spot for experienced scuba divers and snorkeling beginners alike . The
area is frequently visited by stingrays, eels, giant starfish, brightly colored tropic al
fish, and even an occasional octopus or manatee. The variety of sea life seen here
is due to the park’s proximity to the Gulf Stream. As a result, the channel’s strong tidal flow often brings in various sea animals that were riding the Gulf Stream
from the south.
Red Reef Park – 1400 N. Ocean Blvd., Boca Raton, FL, 33432, 561-393-7810,
-Reef -Park -49
• Snorkel, nature walk, golf, and so much more are here. A renovated boardwalk
offers a pavilion, benches , and a beautiful view of the ocean. At the end of the
boardwalk is a brick walkway that extends to South Beach and from there another walkway to the Palmetto Park pavilion. There is also a 9 -hole golf course
beside the ocean and the Gumbo Limbo Center for nature lovers.
Snorkelers and
kayakers near the
Blue Heron Bridge in
Phil Foster Park
discover.
tions/Phil -Foster.aspx
Our cultural and historical influences have helped shape our community and are what make The Palm Beaches unique. As you read this section, think about the contributions
these cultural groups have made to our area . We wouldn’t be the diverse community
we are without them!
Our Divers e Heritage
The Palm Beaches’ p ioneers came from all countries and religious backgrounds.
Together these early settlers created the vibrant culture that exists today.
Native American Heritage
• As outlined in Section 1, Our Area’s Early History, Native American tribes have influenced our region for many years.
• Visitors can learn more about the Jobe and Jeaga tribes that originally settled in our area on the Early Native American History & Archaeology Tour at the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse. Discover It: Early Native American History & Archaeology Tour
– Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse, 500 Captain Armours Way, Jupiter, FL, 33469, 561 -747-
8380, -american-history-2-8-24/
• Remnants of one of the last coastal shell mounds in the region can be found at
DuBois Park in Jupiter . The park was once home to the Jobe and Jeaga tribes. It
also features the DuBois Pioneer Home , which is open for guided tours.
• Exhibits and artifacts of our region’s earliest inhabitants can be found at the Richard and Pat Johnson Palm Beach County History Museum .
• Visitors can learn more about the Seminole tribe at the Loxahatchee River Battlefield Park and the nearby recreated Seminole Village in Riverbend Park.
The battlefield park in Jupiter offers a one- mile trail with historic markers;
located at 9060 Indiantown Road, Jupiter, Florida.
• Local Native American tribal history is also on display at the Jupiter Inlet
Lighthouse & Museum , located across the Jupiter Inlet from DuBois Park.
Section 5 – Our Cultural Heritage
• GERMANY: Many of our early residents were of German descent . We celebrate
their heritage in several even ts, including Oktoberfest of the Palm Beaches in
Lake Worth Beach. The event includes traditional German food and drink, in
addition to performances by Oktoberfest bands from Germany. Arts and crafts,
carnival games, folk dancing, and a variety of vendors are also included in the event. Discover It: Oktoberfest of T he Palm Beaches – The American German
Club, 5111 Lantana Rd., Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33463, 561-967-6464,
• FINLAND: Palm Beach County is one of the largest Finnish communities in the U.S., particularly in Lake Worth Beach and Lantana. The Finnish arrived in the early 1900s as carpenters, maids, and cooks for wealthy people who began
moving to Palm Beach and West Palm Beach from the other parts of the country.
• Lake Worth Beach also has two stone monuments in its Bryant Park that honor
the Finnish. One honors Finnish World War II veterans, and the other is a pair of
geese commemorating the influx of immigrants from Finland to the area.
• Visitors can experience Finnish heritage at the Midnight Sun Festival , a Finnish
American festival held in Bryant Park in Lake Worth Beach each spring. The name
of the event comes from the fact that the sun basically never sets in Finland in the summer. The event features crafts, food, a wife -carrying obstacle course
competition, and local and international entertainment. Discover It: Midnight
Sun Festival – Bryant Park, Lake Ave., Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33460, 561-200-
8683,
Oktoberfest of
The Palm Beaches
Discover The Palm Beaches
• African Americans have lived in our area since the 1800s . The Spady Cultural
Heritage Museum exhibits share African American history locally and nationwide.
The museum’s Heritage Garden features plants and trees that flourished in
Delray Beach in the 1920s when Solomon D. Spady (See Section 3 – Our
Influential Citizens, Page 71) moved to the area. Discover It: Spady Cultural
Heritage Museum – 170 NW 5th Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33444, 561-279- 8883,
• Another way to experience African American culture is to attend the Juneteent h
Festival with lots of vendors, entertainment, and food. Discover It: Juneteenth
Festival –
Caribbean Heritage
• Many of today’s residents came here from Caribbean countries including the
Bahamas, Haiti, Jamaica, and Cuba. The Caribbean culture is reflected in both our
music and foods . Discover It: Visitors can enjoy a taste of Caribbean food and
music at the Florida Jerk Festival held in May – John Prince Park, 270 6th Ave. S.,
Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33461, -
details/florida -jerk-festival-2023/overview/
Hispanic and Latino Heritag e
• Hispanic and Latino heritage can be enjoyed throughout The Palm Beaches . In
addition, Fiesta de Pueblo is a Hispanic cultural and arts festival celebrating the
Three Wise Men. The January event includes music, food, art, a parade, games,
amusement park rides, and a business expo that showcases Hispanic businesses.
Discover It: Fiesta de Pueblo – Samuel J. Ferreri Community Park, 2905 Jog Rd.,
Greenacres, FL, 33467, 561-889-6527,
A vendor prepares food at the
Florida Jerk Festival
ainment/florida -jerk-festival -returns -for-
20th- anniversary -celebration/
• Our residents also include those of Japanese, Filipino, Bangladeshi and other
Asian cultures . These diverse communities enhance the cultural fabric of Palm
Beach County, promoting multiculturalism and inclusivity.
• The earliest Japanese immigrants established the Yamato Colony near Boca Raton
in 1905. The Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens is a beautiful center for
Japanese arts and culture. Experience the history and traditions of the Japanese
when exploring the 16- acres of gardens, ongoing exhibitions, authentic teahouse,
educational programs, and more. Discover It: Morikami Museum and Japanese
Gardens – 4000 Morikami Park Road, Delray Beach, FL 33446, 561-495-0233,
• Over the years, we have watch the Bangladeshi community grow and thrive, celebrating cultural events like Pahela Baishakh and Victory Day, and fostering
ties through organizations like the Bangladesh Association of Florida.
Jewish Heritage
• Palm Beach County has the fourth largest Jewish community in the nation.
19
• Kosher restaurants are prominent throughout the county and contribute to the
area’s vibrant culinary scene. Discover It: The Kosher Chobee – 4875 Okeechobee
Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL , 33417, 561-662- 2223,
• Additional Kosher Restaurants can be found on the Chabad of Palm Beach
Gardens website at
sting -of-Local -Kosher -Restaurants.htm
• There are also Jewish Community Centers in Boca Rato n , a s
well as in Boynton Beach an d Palm Beach Gardens
.
• A variety of programs about and for the Jewish culture are offered by the Jewish
Federation of Palm Beach County
Morikama Museum
and Japanese Gardens
-
content/uploads/2019/07/RockyPoint2- 1.jpg
• From weddings to pride events and organizations , The Palm Beaches hosts a
variety of options for the LGBTQ + community .
• With roots going back more than three decades, Compass LGBTQ Community
Center in Lake Worth Beach is one of the largest LGBTQ+ community centers in
the country.
o In addition to providing social services and enrichment programs, Compass
hosts the annual Palm Beach Pride.
o Compass also established the Stonewall Black and White Ball, an annual
outreach and fundraising event in West Palm Beach that celebrates LGBTQ+ history and highlights opportunities for social justice leadership.
o Each year, Compass partners with Palm Beach Dramaworks on the Legacy
Project. This effort pairs LGBTQ+ youth with trailblazers of the community for interviews about their personal histories, which are compiled into digital stories. Discover It: Compass LGBTQ Community Center – 201 N.
Dixie Hwy, Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33460, 561- 533-9699, compasslgbtq.com
• The first and only LGBTQ+ polo league in the world , the Gay Polo League
in Wellington was founded by Chip McKenney in 2006 to inspire and empower
those individuals who identify themselves as lesbian, gay, bisexual, and
transgender via the promotion of and participation in the sport of polo. In the
spring, the GPL hosts the International Gay Polo Tournament at the National
Polo C enter . The event combines serious competition with social events and
tailgates.
Palm Beach Pride
Discover The Palm Beaches
From steamboats to railroads to t oday’s automobile roads , transportation has played an
important role in the development of our area ’s early communities and industries.
Our Early Transportation
• The original inhabitants of Palm Beach County followed footpaths and traveled by natural waterways.
• In the 1820s, s tagecoach lines started out as routes for the U.S Postal Serv ice.
Eventually, the Postal Service turned the routes over to private companies that began transporting people and mail along the routes.
• By the mid -1800s, stagecoach routes became a vital mode of transportation ,
connecting towns and villages.
• As early as 1829, steamboats began to run on Florida rivers. They became
prevalent in the 1860s, transporting mail, supplies, goods, and people up and down the state.
• Palm Beach Lake Trail , a biking and walking path, was Palm Beach’s first street.
Early pioneer life centered on Lake Worth and the earliest houses and churches
were built along this street, including the Episcopal Church of Bethesda- by-the-
Sea, which can still be seen from the trail today.
• Railroads first arrived in the state in the 1860s with a line running f rom
Fernandina Beach to Cedar Key in the northern part of the state. As previously
mentioned, the Jupiter and Lake Worth Railroad was the first railroad to be
built in Palm Beach County . Its 7.5 -mile track was completed in 1889 between
Jupiter Inlet and Juno Beach, along Lake Worth (the body of water now referred
to as the Lake Worth Lagoon ). The route, which transported produce and
passengers , was often called the Celestial Railway because it had two other
stops called Mars and Venus .
Section 6 –
Our Transportation, Then & Now
Celestial Rail way
-era/
Jupiter to Juno and in reverse on the return trip. It was expensive to operate this
small railroad. The railroad was built to connect steamboat lines that traveled
out of the Jupiter Inlet and south from Lake Worth (the body of water, not the
town).
• By 1892, the Florida Coast Line Canal and Transportation Company’s series of
canals had reached Jupiter. The goal was to create an inland waterway along the
length of the Atlantic coast for transportation purposes, avoiding the hazards of
open ocean travel . In 1892, Henry Morrison Flagler invested in the company in
order to use some of the land granted to the company for his Florida East Coast Railway. The company dredged canals and connected natural waterways ,
which became known as the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway. The inland
waterway was completed in 1912, connecting Jacksonville to Miami.
• As mentioned, the Florida East Coast Railway arrived in West Palm Beach in
1894. The railroad was instrumental in founding and growing communities
located along its tracks.
• Two years later, i n 1896, t he Jupiter and Lake Worth Railroad went out of
business, as it couldn’t compete with Flagler’s more affordable Florida East Coast
Railway.
• The first major roadway to the Biscayne Bay region opened in 1892, running
from Lantana to North Miami.
• The arrival of the automobile required paved roads to be built in Florida. In
1915 , the Dixie Highway connected the towns and cities located in Florida to
those located along the South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee borders .
Intracoastal Waterway
-
source/seaport/pdfs/2015 -Florida -
Waterways -System -Plan_Final.pdf
Today, our transportation options for visitors include ride share like Uber and Lyft , as
well as taxis, car rentals, trains, trolley s, bike rentals, golf carts , and more!
• There are several options to travel by train in our area:
o Amtrak train servic e is available in West Palm Beach at the Amtrak/Tri- Rail
Station. Discover It: Amtrak – Amtrak/Tri-Rail Station, 209 S. Tamarind
Ave., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 800- 872-7245,
o Tri-Rail is a regional train system stretching from the Miami International
Airport to Mangonia Park, with stops in West Palm Beach, Lake Worth
Beach, Boynton Beach, Delray Beach , and Boca Raton. Discover It: Tri -Rail
– -rail.com
o The Brightline high -speed rail connects Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Aventura,
Boca Raton, West Palm Beach, and Orlando.
Here’s a Tip: Download the Brightline app for tickets, food menus, and
more. Discover It: Brightline –
• Greyhound bus service offers scheduled departures to cities throughout our area
and across the country from West Palm Beach, Boca Raton, and Jupiter . Discover
It: Greyhound –
• PalmTran , Palm Beach County’s public transportation system, provides a range of
transit services . Riders can download the Paradise Pass app for real -time transit
data, prices, and routes. Riders must pay with exact change or download and use the Paradise Pass app to pay with a credit card using their smartphones. Discover
It: PalmTran – 561-841 -4BUS ,
Brightline
high -speed trains
-
launches -orlando -service -in-florida/?gdpr=accept
• With its central location and congestion -free experience, Palm Beach
International Airport is the easiest way to fly in or out of The Palm Beaches.
PBI serves more than 6.7 million passengers each year. The airport offers 200
daily nonstop arrivals and departures to many destinations in the U.S., The
Bahamas , and Canada across 13 airlines .
• PBI was named the 8th Best Domestic Airport in Travel + Leisure's 2023 World's
Best Awards, 4th Best Airport in the U.S. in Conde Nast Travelers 2023 Readers'
Choice Awards .
• The airport also has unexpected amenities , such as an indoor putting green, free
Wi-Fi, and a pet -relief area. Visitors can relax in the Escape Lounge, the
Centurion ® Studio Partner at PBI , which is open to all travelers regardless of
airline or ticket class . The lounge not only offers an enticing menu of food and
beverages, but it also provides access to 7,000 digital publications in 60-plus
languages . Pay at the door or pre -book space in advance. Discover It: Palm Beach
International Airport – 1000 James L. Turnage Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL,
33415, 561-471-7420,
• Another option for visitors flying into the area is the Fort Lauderdale -Hollywood
International Airport , which is approximately 25 miles from Boca Raton.
This airport services more than 700 flights per day , with non -stop service to 75
U.S. cities and connectivity to 60 international destinations in 33 countries. Visitors can check with their airline to see if they provide this service. Discover It:
Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport – 11 Terminal Dr., Fort
Lauderdale, FL, 3315, 954-359-1200,
Palm Beach International Airport
Discover The Palm Beaches
, which is 47 miles south of Boca Raton. This airport services more than
1,000 flights daily to 167 domestic and international destinations on more than 90 airlines. Discover It: Miami International Airport – 2100 NW 42
nd Ave.,
Miami, FL, 33142, 305- 876-7000, -airport.com
Shuttle s, Taxis , Ride Share, and Rental Cars
• A variety of hired transportation options are available throughout The Palm
Beaches. See the “Ground Transportation” tab on the Palm Beach International
Airport’s website for t ransportation to and from the airport .
Many companies operate transportation services through out The Palm Beaches ,
as well.
• The P eanut Island Shuttle Water Taxi is available between Sailfish Marina and
Peanut Island. The shuttle runs seven days a week. For more information , visit
.
• Visitors to Delray Beach can download the Ride Freebee app to book free,
on-demand rides to anywher e in the downtown area.
• Visitors can download the Circuit App to book electric shuttle rides along
various downtown routes. Ride Circuit in Boca Raton, Boynton Beach and West
Palm Beach, Garden’s Mall , and Lake Worth Beach . The service in Boca R aton is
free but must start or end at the Boca Raton Brightline station and is for active
Brightline customers only. Rides within the West Palm Beach portion of the service area are free, but there is a charge for rides to and from the Town of Palm
Beach . Discover I t: Circuit App – -locations
• In Jupiter , visitors can use Zeke’s Golf Cart Taxi , 561-846-0411
• Uber and Lyft are available throughout the area. Travelers must download these
companies’ apps to their smartphones to arrange a ride.
Peanut Island Shuttle
Water Taxi
news/local/2022/03/25/exploring
-peanut -island -florida -water -taxi-
camping -and-more -
know/6998852001/
• F or visitors with no transportation or those who want help in discovering our
area, guided tours are just the thing. Visitors can explore the area by bus or boat
with knowledgeable and fun guides. For a list of tours , see the Discover The
Palm Beaches resources section of the Official Visitor s Guide or visit the website:
-sightseeing
Road Construction Updates
• Weekly Palm Beach County road and bridge construction updates can be found at
discover. .
Local Economy
Our Population
• There are approximately 1,500,000 residents in Palm Beach County. The median
property value in our county is $368,300, and the median yearly household
income is approximately $76,000.
• West Palm Beach is the largest city in the county and is the county seat.
Approximately 121,000 people live in West Palm Beach. The median property
value in West Palm Beach is $324,800, and the median yearly household income
is approximately $64,000.
Sources:
Our Metropolitan Area
• Palm Beach County is part of the Miami -Fort Lauderdale- West Palm Beach
Metropolitan Area, which is home to over six million people. The median
income in this metropolitan area is $62,870, and the median property value is
$317,800.
Section 7 – Our Demographics & Our Local Economy
South Florida
-
Florida -Bookies -081115L.jpg?itok=9hbrKnn -
Visitors will frequently ask about what drives our local economy. Palm Beach County
holds a diverse portfolio of economic drivers and industries that enhance job growth
and fuel our economy.
TOURISM
• Tourism is one of Palm Beach County’s major industries:
• Generates an annual economic impact of approximately $10 billion for
the local economy
• Includes $84 million in bed -tax revenue
• Supports more than 85,000 jobs
• Direct visitor spending positively impacts several sectors: Food & Beverage approximately $1.9 billion; Lodging $2.4 billion; Retail $1.1 billion; Recreation $1
billion; and Transportation within the county at $600,000.
• Because tourism is so important, the Palm Beach County Tourist Development
Council was established in 1981 by the Palm Beach County Commissioners.
• The entities that work hand -in-hand under the umbrella of the TDC are Discover
The Palm Beaches , the Cultural Council for Palm Beach County , the Palm Beach
County Film & Television Commission , and the Palm Beach County Sports
Commission .
• As the official tourism marketing corporation for Palm Beach County, the Mission of Discover T he Palm Beaches is simple:
Grow the Tourism Economy
The Business Development Board of Palm Beach County is designated by the
State of Florida and Palm Beach County Commission as Palm Beach County’s official
economic development organization.
• During their stay, tourists are introduced to Palm Beach County’s lifestyle and business environment, which could lead to more businesses choosing to locate or expand here. That’s where the Business Development Board comes in.
• The BDB works to achieve its goals by encouraging corporate relocations and expansions, working to increase international trade, and providing marketing
support and business networking services
Other Major Industries / Industry Clusters
It’s exciting to see all the wide variety of industries in our county. The following is a
snapshot of the industry clusters and information that can be found on the Business Development Board’s website:
AVIATION + AEROSPACE + ENGINEERING : This industry boomed in the 1990s,
when aircraft and rocket -engine company Pratt & Whitney moved here. As a result, our
county is recognized as a leader in this industry from maintenance and training to the production of aircraft, helicopters, and rocket and propulsion systems. Its 1,692 companies supply 19,883 jobs and $10.3 billion in economic impact – similar to the
economic $10 billion impact of Tourism.
20
AGRIBUSINESS / AGRICULTURE: Our county is one of the largest agriculture counties in
the United States, with 37% of its land mass – 456,001 acres – dedicated to agriculture.
This drives over $1.397 billion in economic impact, through 556 companies and 12,455 jobs. We also lead the nation in the productio n of sugar and sweet corn, with 18% of all
sugar sold in the U.S. produced here. The county is also the leading producer in Florida of rice, lettuce, bell peppers, radishes, and Chinese vegetables.
21
FINANCIAL SERVICES: Known among the nation’s leaders for business and financial
services, Palm Beach County is often referred to as “Wall Street South.” Companies include banking, wealth management, investment services, venture capital, and corporate finance firms. Combined they represent over 20,000 companies and over
300,000 jobs .
22
HEALTHCARE: More than 5,600 healthcare- related businesses can be found here. The
industry employs approximately 80,000 people.23
employees, information technology graduates from our state colleges and
universities, and cooperative alliances provide a favorable environment to technology
and communication companies. An $8 b illion industry, it includes over 2,500 companies
creating 19,599 jobs. We’ve been a leader in innovation since the IBM PC was created
here in Boca Raton.24
EQUESTRIAN: Palm Beach County has the highest concentration of sport horses in the
world, during the polo and equestrian season. More than 7,000 horses can be found in the county during this time with riders from 33 countries and all 50 U.S. states .
25
CLEANTECH: The confluence of geography and climate provides significant solar,
biomass, and ocean energy sources. Over 700 companies create over 8,500 jobs.
26
MARINE : A study by the Marine Industries Association of Palm Beach County shows the
marine industry has a $4.7 billion economic impact, employing 22,000 people. The industry includes marinas and boatyards, manufacturing, and boating -related services.
27
Our Institutions of Higher Education
• Florida Atlantic University opened in 1961 as the fifth public university in
Florida. Today, the University serves more than 30,000 undergraduate and
graduate students across six campuses along the southeast Florida coast. More
than 70% of the university’s student s attend classes at the Boca Raton campus,
which is the university’s largest campus. The majority of FAU’s degree programs
are based here. For more information, see
A rider competes during the
Winter Equestrian Festival
in Wellington.
Discover The Palm Beaches
• Palm Beach Atlantic University is a private, Christian university located in West
Palm Beach. Majors range from business and accounting programs to ministry and liberal arts programs. The school’s undergraduate enrollment is approximately 3,000 students. For more information, see .
• Nova Southeastern Universit y, in Palm Beach Gardens , offers online and in -
person classes in a variety of majors , focusing mainly on healthcare disciplines. To
learn more, see .
• Keiser Univer sity West Palm Beach offers a variety of majors in the business,
criminal justice, and healthcare industries. Online classes are also available. For
more information, see -palm -beach/ .
• Lynn University is a private university in Boca Raton offering more than 50
undergraduate and graduate programs in business, music, arts and sciences, and
education. The University also offers a doctoral program in education. More than
3,500 students attend the university, 17% of which are international students. The school is named after Eugene M. Lynn, an insurance magnate and major financial donor to the school.
