Module 2
Discovering
Our Area
Module 2 Learning Objectives :
Discovering Our Area
• Be knowledgeable of the core attractions and venues most
frequently asked about by visitors and their geographic
location.
• Describe some of the attributes that distinguish one attraction
from another.
• Identify the location of the main entertainment centers in
our area.
• Demonstrate the ability to assist visitors with itinerary planning.
• Discover what’s unique to our area that visitors may not find anywhere else.
A. Discovering The Palm Beaches
Most CTAs report that this is their favorite part of becoming a CTA, because they learn
new, interesting facts – even those who have lived here their entire lives.
You never know what visitors will ask about!
Our visitors have a wide range of interests which can include anything from history to
the outdoors to the unique things that make our destination so appealing. Therefore, it’s important to broaden your knowledge base and your general awareness
so you can tailor your assistance to exceed their expectations.
Customized to Our Destination
This highly customized module begins with an overview of our history and cultural
heritage and ends with the venues and attractions that are the most frequented or unique to our destination.
You are not expected to memorize everything about our area that appears on the following pages. You are expected to read this material carefully to become more
aware of our history and the many other things that make our area special.
Through this reading and by completing the required pre-classroom exercises, you
will be better able to answer visitors’ questions about what there is to see and do .
Enjoy the journey!
Discovering Our Area
Module 2 – Reading
Look fo r the ‘Discover It’ Notations
‘Discover It’ = How you or a visitor can personally visit a site, or how you can learn
more about a point of interest
As you read about our area, e ach ‘Discover It’ includes the address , phone number, and
active URL /Website link to learn more. This document then becomes a rich resourc e, as
these ‘Discover It’ items are alphabetized in the Quick Reference Guide & Index (near
the back) to help you quickly find information !
As you read each ‘Discover It ,’ take a minute to look at the map in the “Live, Work &
Play” section of the Official Visitors Guide to see where these inter esting sites are
located. And try to discover as many of these sites as you can over time. I t will be a fun
experience for you and will help you provide some interesting factoids or tips to assist visitor s – making YOU a memorable part of their visit!
Early History
From the home of Native Americans to the expanding American population that grew along the Florida East Coast Railroad tracks, to the tourism mecca of today, Palm Beach
County’s history has created the area and culture we know today. The following sections
describe that evolution.
Our Early Native American Inhabitants
• Ea rly Native Americans occupied many areas of what became Florida.
Approximately 5,000 years ago, the Jeaga tribe began to inhabit the coastal
areas of today’s Palm Beach County . They are descendants of the Taino culture
in the Caribbean.1
• Skilled in crafting dugout canoes from cypress trees, the J eaga used waterways to
trade with neighboring tribes. Remnants of their lives and dietary practices are
reflected in the nearly vanished shell mounds along the
river system.
• From 500 BC to the 1700s, neighboring tribes included the prehistoric Mayaimi
tribe in the Kissimmee River Valley and around Lake Okeechobee, while the
Calusa tribe lived along the Caloosahatchee River. The Calusa were known to
attack Spanish conquistadors and their ships anchored offshore.
• The Mayaimi tribal name evolved into what is known as the Belle Glade
Culture, because of the Smithsonian Institution’s distinct archeological findings in
Belle Glade. Their people’s habitation and burial mounds are located just west of
Section 1 – Our Area ’s Early History
The Jeaga in a
Dugout Canoe
e-jeaga -palm -beach- countys-
indigenous -tribe/
to as the “Indian Mound .”
• In the 1700s, the Seminole tribe came about through a blending of Florida’s
Indigenous tribes , as more and more European settlers arrived .
• T
he Seminole evolved into a distinct cultural group, incorporating elements from
their Creek tribal heritage, as well as elements from other tribes. The Seminole
were not nomadic and built homes and established communities throughout
Florida, including in Palm Beach County.
Our Early Explorers & Formation of Palm Beach County
• Beginning in the 1500s, s everal European countries explored present-day Florida,
including Spain, France , and England.
• Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de Leon was the first known European to explore
our large peninsula. In 1519, he landed near what is today the Jupiter Inlet. Being
the first to “discover the land ”, Ponce de Leon claimed it for Spain and named it
Florida.
Juan Ponce de Leon
exploration.marinersmuseum.o
rg/subject/juan -ponce- de-leon/ Seminole Tribe Members
Near Their Thatch -roofed Shelter
historyreclaimed. -f loridas -
history -seminole -indians -are-not-descended -
from -the-tequesta/
ultimately obtained control of Florida upon defeating Spain in the Seven Years
War in 1763 .
• The British divided the land into East Florida and West Florida , which remained
loyal to the British during the Revolutionary War.
• Later, the British lost their claim on Florida to Spain, as part of the peace treaty
that ended the Revolutionary War in 1783. (See Section 2 – Our Military History,
Page 63)
• In 1819, Spain ceded Florida to the United States, with Florida becoming an
official U.S. Territory on March 4, 1822.
• In 1836, Dade County was created.
• In 1909, Palm Beach County was carved out of Dade County , as Florida’s 47th
county.
Our Early Settlers
• S tarting in 1790, Spain offered land grants to encourage settlement in the area.
Both Spanish colonists and settlers from the 13 states in the newly formed
United States poured into Florida to claim land.
• W ith this influx of new residents, Florida became more “Americanized.” After
several U.S. military excursions into Florida, due mainly to the First Seminole Wa r
, the U.S. took over
Florida.
• Settlers began to arrive in today’s Palm Beach C ounty shortly after Florida
became a territory of the United States in 1822.
• As more Europeans settled in the area in the 1800s , the Seminole began to fight
to protect their lands, leading to the Seminole Wars (See Section 2 – Our Military
History, Page 63)
• Fort Jupiter, a U.S. Army fort built in Jupiter in 1838 , after the last battle in the
Seminole Wars , is believed to be
the first permanent non -Indian settlement in today’s Palm Beach County .2
• When the first settlers arrived, our entire area was known as “Lake Worth” ,
named by soldiers in honor of General William Jenkins Worth , leader of the U.S.
forces in the Second Seminole War
• More settlers arrived, as a result of the Florida Armed Occupation Act of 1842 ,
which granted 160 acres to anyone who cared for the land for at least five years
and agreed to join the militia, if called upon.
• F lorida became a state on March 3, 1845.
• Several shipwrecks occurred along the east coast of Florida, due to the rocky
terrain and swift currents between Vero Beach and Miami. Settlers in the area
salvaged what they could to build their homes and supply their cupboards.
first illuminated on July 10, 1860. The name “Jupiter” came from the British anglicizing the Indian tribal word “Jobe,” which is what the Spanish had called the
area in the 1760s.
• In the 1850s, the steamboat became a popular mode of transportation on the
coastal waters and rivers of Florida . These steamboats had a shallow bottom and
could float in very shallow waters, which was ideal for the state’s rivers and the reefs, shoals, and rough ocean seas.
• The Homestead Act was signed by President Abraham Lincoln in May 1862, which gave citizens free land, provided they live on it and improve it. Another wave of
settlers arrived in the state after the Civil War ended in 1865. People from the
north started to move to Florida for its warm weather and available land for
crops. To create more farmland, these settlers drained the swamps .
• On July 28, 1873, the first formal homestead claim in Florida was filed by Hiram
F. Hammon, who moved from Ohio to the Lake Worth Region , which today is
Palm Beach .
• In 1881, real estate developer Hamilton Disston purchased four million acres of
land from Orlando to south of Lake Okeechobee, including the northern edge of the Everglades. Once he drained the area, fertile soil was exposed, which was
excellent for growing crops. When this fertile soil was discovered, farmers
moved into this area and areas throughout the county. Farming and cat tle
ranching became the main industr ies.
Our Area ’s First s
• In 1872, settlers began arriving in the area that is today’s Palm Beach.
• The name Palm Beach came about when the Spanish ship, Providencia , wrecked
on the shores of the growing town in 1878. The ship carried a large supply of
coconuts bound from Havana, Cuba, to Barcelona, Spain. Residents of the town
gathered the load of coconuts and began planting these first coconuts
Steamboat Navigating a
Florida River
-a ge-of-
steamboats/
this time forward , the area was called Palm Beach.
• The first hotel in Palm Beach opened in 1880. Elisha Newton “Cap” Dimick (See
Section 3 – Our Influential Citizens, Page 71) opened t he Cocoanut Grove House
specifically to draw tourists.
• The first post office was established in Lake Worth Region on May 21, 1880.
• In 1886, the first school opened in today’s Palm Beach. Residents donated the
land and raised money for lumber and school supplies. Seven children attended school on the first day. Today, that school building is preserved as the Little Red
Schoolhouse in Phipps Park
• In 1889, t he Jupiter and Lake Worth Railroad was the first railroad to be built in
Palm Beach County . It was often called the “Celestial Railway ,” because it had
two other stops called Mars and Venus .
• Also in 1889, the Dade County seat was moved from Miami to Juno in the
northern portion of the county , as residents were
unhappy that the governmental offices and services were located so far south . A
vote to move the county seat further north was held, and the proposition passed
107 in favor and 80 opposed.
3 However, in 1899, Dade County residents voted
to move the county seat back to Miami.
• According to the U.S. Census, in 1890, fewer than 1,000 people lived in all of
Southeast Florida from the tip of Lake Okeechobee to the Florida Keys .
The Florida Land Boom
• By 1920, the state of Florida had a population of 968,470 residents, but another
wave of immigration was about to occur.4 Following World War I, Americans
had the time and money to travel. In addition, many workers were earning paid
vacation time and other benefits , which made travel easier. The automobile was
also becoming a popular way to travel. Many Americans visited Florida and
decided to move there.
The Shipwrecked Providencia
ory/2019/01/09/from -archives -shipwreck -
its-coconuts -led-to-palm -beachs -
name/6343819007/
people decided to invest in land in Florida . Land speculators bought large swaths
of land at low prices, divided the land up, and sold it at much higher prices.
• Many of the people who migrated to Florida were middle -class Americans with
families looking for homes and land, making it easy for land speculators to make
a profit. Demand for housing at this time was so high that costs soared. Many
people could not afford to live in the state once they had moved there.
Newspaper stories advised prospective residents to stay where they were.
• In addition, much of the land for sale was swampy and difficult to build on. It
didn’t help that raw materials for building homes were also hard to obtain .
Railroads couldn’t deliver the materials fast enough, driving down sales.
• This forced the price of land to drop , leaving many speculators with lots of
overpriced parcels without any buyers. The boom ended in 1925 after a very cold
winter, an extremely hot summer, and a series of hurricanes kept potential
buyers away. The state’s economy dropped quickly, causing the state to go into
a depression four years before the Great Depression of 1929.
Our Early History – Cities & Communities
West Palm Beach/Palm Beach History
• In March 1894, the Florida East Coast Railway arrived in today’s West
Palm Beach , making the whole area more accessible to tourists from other parts
of the U .S. Founded by Henry Flagler, the railroad also improved the agriculture
Real Estate Ad
During the Florida Land Boom
what -led-boom -and- bust -florida -real-estate -1920-
s/8883053002/
• That same year, Flagler completed the Royal Poinciana Hotel overlooking Lake
Worth on the island of Palm Beach . It became the world’s largest hotel , being
more than 1,800 feet long. The hallways were so long that bellboys delivered
messages and packages on bicycles. The hotel drew high society visitors from all
over the U.S.
• Flagler developed West Palm Beach to be the commercial and residential area to
support his resorts. The area grew quickly after the arrival of the train.
• West Palm Beach was incorporated in November 1894 , ready to receive wealthy
visitors and new residents.
• The first church in West Palm Beach was the Union Congregational Church, built in March 1894, the same month the train arrived at the town.
• The first school in the area opened shortly afterwards in the church with 19
students.
• Many of the workers for the railroad were African American who began living in the area. In September 1894, the first school for African American students
opened at Tabernacle Missionary Baptist Church, which was one of the first churches built for Black people in the area in 1893.
• In 1895, the first bridge was built across Lake Worth connecting West Palm Beach
and Palm Beach .
• Flagler built the Palm Beach Inn in 1896. Built on the
oceanfront property of the Royal Poinciana, the Palm Beach Inn was smaller than
its predecessor. Return visitors liked that it overlooked the ocean and would
often request to stay “down by the breakers.” When Flagler doubled the size of the Palm Beach Inn in 1901, he decided to change the name to The Breakers.
• These two palatial resorts put The Palm Beaches on the map as America ’s First
Resort Destination
TM and the only destination developed exclusively for tourism
.
Royal Poinciana Hotel
how/160546
the railroad from Jacksonville to Miami, building hotels along the route. This
resulted in the early waves of tourists visiting our state and our county. Discover It: Those wanting to know more about Flagler should visit the Henry Morrison
Flagler Museum – flaglermuseum.us (
See the Attractions Section, Page 174)
• By 1900, the population in Southeast Florida had jumped to approximately 5,000 people.
• As mentioned, Palm Beach County was created out of Dade County in 1909 ,
becoming Florida's 47th county. The first county government meetings were
held in an old four -room schoolhouse at the corner of Clematis Street and Dixie
Highway in West Palm Beach. At the time, only about 5,300 people lived in the new county comprised of portions of what are now Browar d, Martin, and
Okeechobee counties. Broward County was established in 1915, Okeechobee
County in 1917 and Martin County in 1925.
• The Town of Palm Beach was incorporated on April 17, 1911. It became only the
second recognized municipality in Palm Beach County after West Palm Beach.
Elisha Newton “Cap” Di mick
was elected the first mayor. By 1929, the Garden Club of Palm Beach sponsored
the preparation of a Town Plan.
• Paris Eugene Singer , the sewing machine heir, began purchasing property in on
both sides of Lake Worth in 1918. He invited architect Addison Mizner to design
The Everglades Club for him. The design of the private club introduced
Mediterranean style architecture to the area, which is one of the things the town
is known for today.
Map of the C ompleted
Florida East Coast
Railway
52/map -railroad -and- the-development -
of-miami
soldiers returning from WWI.
• Although our area’s telephone service was in place in 1907, telephone lines
arrived in West Palm Beach in 1950 . The mayor was given the first telephone
numbers , so his office number was “1,” and his home number was “2.”
Jupiter History
• In the 1850s, t ourists started coming to the Jupiter area via steamboat for
hunting and fishing trips .
• The DuBois family was one of the first families to settle in the area , building
their home in 1898. It was built of Florida pine by pioneers Harry and Susan
DuBois and it is still located in
DuBois Park on top of a monumental shell mound constructed by the Jeaga
people . Harry needed a place to store his pineapple crop before it shipped out,
and the location on the Jupiter inlet was ideal. Before the home was built, a large
pile of mollusk shells sat on top of the mound. Harry sold the shell mound as
shell rock for the roadbed that would become Park Avenue, Silver Beach Road
and other streets in Kelsey City, which later became Lake Park.5
• Today, the DuBois Pioneer Home is one of the last homestead buildings
remaining in Palm Beach County. It is located in the Jupiter Inlet Outstanding
Natural Area . The public is welcome to visit it on a docent guided tour.
Discover It: DuBois Pioneer Home – 19075 DuBois Rd., Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561-
966-6695, discover.
• By 1900, Jupiter had developed near the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse into a
settlement of less than 150 people.
• Many African Americans moved to Jupiter at this time to work on the railroads
and steamboats. They also worked for the white settlers cleaning homes and
working in dairies, orange groves, and sawmills. A school for African American
children was built in Jupiter in 1902.
• In 1925, Jupiter was officially incorporated as a town , just as the Florida land
boom was coming to an end.
DuBois Pioneer Home
discover.
ations/DuBoisPioneer.aspx
was a time when the selling of liquor was illegal in the U.S. When the Florida land
boom came to an end and the area’s economy came crashing down, many of
Jupiter’s residents turned to rum -running (the illegal transfer and sales of
alcohol) to earn additional cash . The problem was so bad that the mayor of the
town, the chief of police, and several police officers were caught as rumrunners .
• In 1954, a retirement village called Salhaven was built in Jupiter for 500 members
of the Upholsters International Union and their families . It closed in 1971 and the
outpatient clinic and convalescent pavilion were used to start today’s Jupiter
Medical Center.
Riviera Beach /Singer Island History
• In 1882, Judge Allen E. Heyser purchased land in today’s Riviera Beach and built a
home on it for him an d his new wife. Heyser was the first lawyer and first county
judge in Dade County. They continued to expand the home and it eventually
became the Oak Lawn Hotel , with 20 rooms built over three stories. The hotel
name came from the five large oaks on the property. The hotel was located on
what is today’s 10th Street.
• The area took its name from the hotel , so in its infancy, the settlement was
known as Oak Lawn .
• The first post office was established in the Oak Lawn Hotel in 1889.
• In 1891, Josiah Sherman , a winter resident, senator, and well-known capitalist
from Atlanta, built a home north of the hotel. He also planted more than 100
coconut trees and drained the swamp land to grow rice.
• Several of the early settlers in Oak Lawn were African Americans who farmed
the area.
• In 1893, w hen a newspaper article called the area the “Riviera of America” ,
Judge Heyser moved to change the name of the settlement to Riviera . He also
changed the name of his hotel to the Riviera Hotel .
Oak Lawn Hotel
-ho tels-on-
lake-worth -part-ii/
his law duties in Miami. Heyser sold the hotel and after a couple of owners, it was
purchased by Charles N. Newcomb , a scientist, inventor, and wealthy
manufacturer from Davenport, Iowa. Newcomb drained the lakefront and filled it
with sand. He also improved the landscaping around the hotel, planting 26
varieties of fruit trees.
• Newcomb knew Henry Flagler and when Flagler’s houseboat needed repairs,
Newcomb offered up the Riviera Hotel for entertaining Flagler’s famous guests ,
with names like Vanderbilt and Astor. The Newcomb’s were also regular guests
at Flagler’s The Breakers.
• In 1906, a group of fishermen from the Bahamas settled on today’s Singer
island. With fishing a popular activity in the area, the men would come mainly
during fishing season and then return to the Bahamas in the summer, but some
lived on the island year -round . The Bahamian fisherm en were called Conches
and they formed a town called Inlet City.
• In 1910, Newcomb purchased another 200 acres and began laying out a town. The main north -south street was called Montreal Street because it was part of
the major highway running from Montreal, Quebec to Key West. Today, the
street is known as Broadway .
• In 1919, New comb donated land to the FEC railroad to build a loading platform
for the shipping of fish. By the 1920s, Riviera was one of the largest shipping points for fish on Florida’s east coast. By 1922, there were 75 commercial fishing
families living in Riviera.
• Also at this time , several more developers began selling lots in the area and
rumors began to spread that West Palm Beach was going to try to incorporate
Riviera. To prevent this, 26 qualified voters met at the town’s school and voted
to incorporate, making the town of Riviera official on September 9, 1922.
• One of the more famous developers on Singer Island was Paris Singer who
developed The Everglades Club in Palm Beach with architect Addison Mizner .
(See West Palm Beach/Palm Beach History above and Section 3 – Our Influential
Citizens, Page 71). Singer owned land on the island and often took his friends to
picnic there. It came to be known as Singer’s Island and the name stuck.
• In 1925, Singer worked with Mizner on a plan to build two luxurious hotels on
Singer Island: the Paris Singer Hotel and the Blue Heron with a 36 -hole go lf
course. That same year, the county agreed to build a wooden bridge from
Riviera Beach to Singer island to make access easier to Singer’s hotels – the
“Sherman Point” Bridge .
• The Florida land boom began to slow and after the hotel’s service wing was
completed, building stopped, and the hotel was never completed. The shell of
the Blue Heron Hotel remained until it was demolished for scrap metal in the
1940s.
• Riviera began to experience growth again in the early 1940s, with the population
jumping from 1,981 in 1940 to 4,065 in 1950.
6 In 1940, the City of Riviera
purchased 1,000 feet of beach on the island, which led to the growth of tourism in the area. In 1941, the town changed its name to Riviera Beach .
• In 1947, railroad and hotel tycoon A.O. Edwards bought 240 acres on Sin ger
Island and laid out a city plan with parks, walkways , and roadways. It became the
town of Palm Beach Shores and Edwards became its first mayor. In 1948, he built
the Inlet Court Hotel on the island. It was l ater renamed The C olonnades . When
Edwards died in 1960, his estate sold The Colonnades to John D. MacArthur (See
Palm Beach Gardens History , below , and Section 3 – Our Influential Citizens, Page
71). MacArthur owned a large plot of land on the northern end of the island and
donated a portion of that land for a state park. It opened in 1989 as MacArthur
Beach State P ark.
• In 1949, a new cement and steel bridge replaced the wooden “ Sherman Point ”
Bridge connecting Singer island to the mainland. The bridge included a
drawbridge that allowed boats to more easily travel up and down the
Intracoastal Waterway.
Lake Worth Beach History
• Arriving in 1884, Reverend Elbridge Gale played a significant role in the history of
Lake Worth. Gale built a log cabin in the town of Mangonia on the western side
of the Lake Worth Lagoon . Gale opened a general store in Mangonia and is
credited for his agriculture contributions, planting one of the first coconut groves
and botanical gardens. The town of Mangonia no longer exists and was located around present -day 29
th street.
• In 1889, the small settlement of Jewel was awarded a post office to serve its 13
residents. Fannie James , an African American resident of the town, applied for
the post office and she was the one who operated it from her family’s
homestead. Later, Fannie also ran her husband Samuel’s real estate business and
became one of the region’s largest pineapple producers.
• The town of Lake Worth was incorporated in June 1913. Although it was
affected by the Florida land boom , it began to grow again after World War II. The Blue Heron Hotel on
Singer Island
h istory -
of-singer -island/
on the coastline and differentiate itself from unincorporated Lake Worth.
Boynton Beach History
• Nathan S. Boynton , a Civil War officer from Michigan , purchased 500 acres in
today’s Boynton Beach in 189 5. By 1897, he built the Boynton Beach Hote l to
attract tourists from the north and to serve as his family’s summer residence.
• The first white settlers were farmers who grew pineapples, tomatoes, mangos,
and citrus fruits.
• In 1926, the Seaboard Air Line Railroad opened a new route that included a
station in Boynton Beach . This played a crucial role in the town’s development
and part of a larger effort to increase accessibility and stimulate growth in Florida
during the land boom. The railroad’s presence helped stimulate the real estate
market and tourism industry , key drivers of Florida’s economy.
• In 1896, the FEC railroad arrived and a train station was built in Boynton . As in
other areas, the station served as a critical hub for the community, facilitat ing
travel and trade to the broader region and nation.
• In 1898, the plat for the town of Boynton was filed in Dade County, making the
town official.
• In 1931, the residents of the adjacent barrier island east of the Intercoastal
Waterway split off and called their town Boynton Beach , while the original town
west of the Intercoastal remained Boynton. In 1939, it renamed itself Ocean
Ridge and two years later the town of Boynton took the name City of B oynton
Beach .
• In the mid-1940s , Boynton Beach’s population began to grow after soldiers
returning from World War II found it was a good place to raise a family . At this
same time, several world records in fishing were recorded off Boynton’s shores,
drawing more attention to the town.
Boynton Train Station
historic.boynton-
trail/boynton -
fec-railroad -station -and-farming
• In 1868, William and Sara Gleason from Wisconsin , bought land in various areas
of Florida, including today’s Delray Beach. William served as the Lieutenant
Governor of Florida from 1868-1870. Many settlers coming to the area
purchased property from the Gleasons.
• In 1876, The Orange Grove House of Refuge No. 3 was the first known
building in Delray Beach. The U.S. Lifesaving Service built the refuge as a place
for the shipwrecked to stay and receive sustenance.
• By 1894, several African Americans from north Florida and other nearby
southern states and The Bahamas had settled in the area of today’s Delray
Beach. The population grew as they encouraged their families to move to the
area.
• At this same time, the first school was built here for African American settlers . It
was located on Blackmer Street, today’s 5th Avenue.
• In 1895, the town of Linton was platted in the area on land purchased by William
Linton, a U.S. congressman from Michigan . He had come to the area with Major
Nathan Boynton that year to purchase land to
develop . The residents in the area were mainly farmers. The plat was officially
recorded in 1896.
• Also, in 1895, Adolf Hofman, a prosperous German arrived in the area and
purchased the land that is today’s Del Ida Park subdivision . He built his home
here.
• By 1896, the FEC railroad reached the area, making it easier to ship crops . This
improved the economy and the growth of the town .
• Mt. Olive Baptist Church was built in 1896, established by African American
settlers. It was followed by the construction of St. Paul African Methodist
Episcopal Church in 1897. The first school for African American children
also opened in 1896.
• Also, during this time frame, The Linton School was built for white settlers on the
site of what i s today’s Old School Square.
• A Masonic lodge was established in the area between 1896 and 1898.
St. Paul AME Church
AMEdelray/
on his land payment s. A town leader suggested the new name, which means “of
the king” and is taken from a neighborhood near Detroit, Michigan, believed to
have been settled by Mexicans.
• In 1903, white residents built the church now known as Cason United Methodist .
• In the 1910 U.S. C ensus, the population of Delray was 904 people , 52 percent of
which were white. A significant portion of the population listed their nationality
as first- or second -generation German .7
• The Intracoastal Waterway was built through Delray in the early 1900s. The
portion of town on the mainland was incorporated in 1911 as the City of Delray.8
That same yea r a bridge was built over the Intracoastal Waterway, connecting
the island with the Town of Delray.
• In 1923, the area on the beach side was incorporated as the Town of Delray
Beach. The two communities merged as Delray Beach in 1927.
Boca Raton History
• The construction of the F EC Railroad and the Intracoastal Waterway made
today’s Boca Raton more accessible to settlers beginning in the 1890s. By the
early 1900s, Boca Raton was a small agricultural community consisting mainly
of pineapple farmers.
• Among these were a group of Japanese immigrants led by a man named Joseph
Sakai, who developed a farming community called the Yamato Colony. It was
located along today’s Yamato Road. Discover It : Today, this area is
commemorated by the Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens –
morikami.org
• Boca Raton’s name comes from the Spanish term boca de ratones
referring to hidden sharp- pointed rocks that gnawed or wore down ships’ cables.
Yamato Colony residents
celebrating New Year in 1907
-colony/
land boom. The town council commissioned Addison Mizner (See Section 3 – Our
Influential Citizens, Page 71) to design Boca Raton as a resort community. One of
his first projects was the Cloister Inn , which was completed in 1926 and is the
city’s best -known landmark to this day , now called The Boca Raton .
• By the 1940s, Boca Raton was still mainly known as an agricultural area that
specialized in growing green beans. In 1942, the Army Air Corps buil t its only
war-time radar training school at today’s site of Florida Atlantic University and the Boca Raton Airport .
Belle Glade History
• Belle Glade was originally inhabited by Native American tribes including the
Calusa and Seminole.
• In the decades that followed, m ore settlers began arriving when flooding from
Lake Okeechobee was better controlled and it became easier to access the area.
Three canals were built between 1912 and 1913 to control the flood waters of
Lake Okeechobee: the Hillsboro Canal, the North New River Canal, and the Miami Canal. Along with the canal construction workers, settlers began to arrive
in the area, as more land was drained. Even so, the only way to travel to other
parts of the county was by boat.
• A settlement originally known as Hillsboro w as built here in 1925. Later, the
name was changed by the residents to Belle Glade as they felt it was “the belle of the Glades .”
9
• The FEC Railroad reached this area in 1926 making it much easier to access,
which fueled the arrival of more and more settlers.
• A 1928 hurricane basically wiped out the community and killed approximately
2,500 people. The community rebuilt and the town was incorporated that same
year.
• Between 1932 and 1938, the Hoover Dike was built to further control Lake
Okeechobee flooding .
• Due to the rich Everglades muckland soil , the town’s main economy was based
on farming winter vegetables , as it is today.
The Hoover Dike
-
7/history -flushing -lake-
okeechobee -everglades-
cynthia -williams -
tropicalia/86930340/
Wellington History
• In 1951, Charles Oliver Wellington , a successful accountant and investor from
New York, purchased land that would become today’s Village of Wellington .
• In 1953, the State of Florida authorized the Acme Drainage District to allow for
draining the swamp on Wellington’s land to make it suitable for growing crops.
Wellington was the first chairman of Acme and served until his death in 1959.
• Farmers began to move into the area to farm the fertile soil, mainly growing
strawberries.
• Wellington built the Flying COW Ranch on a portion
of his property. When he passed away , certain section s of the ranch were sold
off to pay for estate taxes.
• Major home construction didn’t occur in the area until 197 2, when the
Investment Corporation of Florida joined with Alcoa Aluminum to
develop 7,400 acres of land in the area. W ith many new residents arriving , the
lots sold well.
• In 1978, the developments were purchased by Gould Florida, a division of
electronics company Gould, Inc . Its chairman William Yilvisaker was an avid
polo player and built the Palm Beach Polo Country Club , today’s National
Polo Center.
• In 1995, Wellington’s residents voted to incorporate the Village. Prior to that,
the Acme Improvement District served as the local government.
• Today, Wellington is recognized as the winter equestrian capital of the world .
National Polo C enter
• On March 20, 1959, John Donald MacArthur (See Section 3 – Our Influential
Citizens, Page 71) announced plans to develop 4,000 acres to provide homes for
55,000 people in a community he wanted to call Palm Beach City. However,
permission to use that name was denied , so he decided to call the development
Palm Beach Gardens .
• MacArthur planned the community with hundreds of waterways, mature pine
and shade trees , and lots of foliage .
• It was also important to MacArthur that a variety of churches be included in the new town to serve residents of all faiths .
• Palm Beach Garden s was completed by MacArthur in 1964.
Our Landmarks – See Appendix 1
Historic Districts / Historic Landmarks / Notable Landmarks
Appendix 1 provides i nformation on our historic districts and landmarks that reflect
our area’s rich history.
Worth Avenue Clock Tower
Discover The Palm Beaches
Our area ’s military installations brought thousands of new residents to The Palm
Beaches. Our airports, hotels, and military radio stations also played a major role in
training soldiers during World War II, all of which helped our area grow.
Our County During the American Revolution / Revo lutionary War
• The Americ an R evolutionary War, 1765 -1783, involved the early colonies
revolting against British rule. The American Patriots within the original thirteen
colonies won independence from Great Britain , becoming the United States of
America, which we celebrate to this day on July 4th – Independence Day .
• At the time, b oth East Florida and West Florida were under the control of Great
Britain and remained loyal to the British during the war.
• Although Revolutionary War battles did occur in Florida, none were held in the
area of today’s Palm Beach County.
The Seminole Wars
• As mentioned, Native American tribes moving into Florida in the 1700s merged
with Indigenous tribes to become the Seminole s.
• As more settlers moved into the area, many of whom had escaped enslavement, finding freedom in Florida, the Seminoles began to fight back to protect their
Section 2 – Our Military History
The original 13 colonies that
declared independence
from Great Britain
kids. -
colonies/338325/media?assemblyId=192
317
the United States appropriately named the First, Second, and Third Seminole
Wars , which the Seminole consider one war .
• The First Seminole War began in 1817. Under General Andrew Jackson, U.S.
military forces invaded Spanish -held Florida, burning towns and capturing
Spanish -held Pensacola and St. Marks. As a result, Spain ceded its Florida
territory to the U.S. in 1819.
• By the mid -1830s, a reservation had been created for the Seminoles to live on ,
which was north of Lake Okeechobee. The Second Seminole War began in 1835
when the U.S. attempted to relocate the Seminole s from the first reservation
to a reservation west of the Mississippi River so that the increasing number of
settlers moving into the area could move onto the reservation ’s land.
• Led by C hief Osceola , the Seminole warriors hid their families in the Everglades
while they fought to defend their homeland.
• In the early stages of the Second Seminole War, conflicts reached what is now Palm Beach County . In January 1838, Lieutenant Levin Powell’s group
encountered Seminoles on the Loxahatchee River near today’s Loxahatchee
Battlefield Park, which commemorates th e battle. Discover It: Loxahatchee River
Battlefield Park – 9060 Indiantown Rd., Jupiter , FL, 33478, 561-252- 1714,
discover.
• The Seminoles forced Powell’s small force to retreat, resulting in casualties on both sides. Major General Thomas Jesup fought the Seminoles in the same area, causing more casualties before the Seminoles withdrew.
• After the battle, Fort Jupiter was built a few miles east.
• Jesup tried to end the Second Seminole war by suggesting the remaining
Seminoles move to South Florida, but this was rejected. He captured 678
Seminoles at Fort Jupiter, including 165 Black Seminoles.
• The Second Seminole war ended in 1842 with Osceola’s capture while meeting
with the U.S. officials under a flag of truce. After this, most Seminoles agreed to
Second Seminole War
Seminole -War
Wars with nearly 2,000 U.S. soldiers killed at a cost between $40 million and
$60 million.11
• In 1855, the Third Seminole War begam when the U.S. attempted to move the
remaining Seminole tribespeople from Florida . Little fighting occurred in this
war, and the U.S. paid most of the remaining Seminole to move west . The war
ended in 1858.
Our Civil War History
• Between 1861-1865 the Civil War was fought in our nation over the moral issue
of slavery and states’ rights, with the states in the North (the anti -slavery Union
Army) fighting the states in the South .
• When Abraham Lincoln was elected president in 1860, Florida became the third
state to secede from the Union , behind South Carolina and Mississippi. The
southern states were worried that the new president would outlaw slavery ,
upon which their agricultural economy and culture depended.
• An estimated 16,000 Floridians fought in the war, most being confederate
soldiers. However, approximately 2,000 fought for the Union . Nearly 5,000
soldiers from Florida lost their lives during the war.12
• During the war, General Winfield Scott recommended that President Lincoln use the Union’s Navy to block southern ports so the Confederacy could not ship or
receive supplies to support their war efforts. The plan , called the Anaconda Plan ,
placed Union naval vessels outside Jupiter Inlet to patrol for Confederate
blockade runners.
• In 1861, August Oswald Lang, the assistant keeper of Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse,
removed and hid the lighting mechanism to help Confederate blockade runners
operate in the dark . Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse was relit after the war ended in
1866.
Our World War History
World War I
• W
orld War I was fought between 1914- 1918, mainly in Europe and the Middle
East, during which the Allies
defeated the Central Powers
• T he United States entered the war in 1917 primarily because German
submarines were attacking American military and passenger ships.
• O ver 42,000 Floridians served in the military during World War I .
• Sparked by the 1939 Nazi invasion of Poland, World War II was fought between
1939 and 1945. During the war, an estimated 6 million people of Jewish descent
were systematically killed in gas chambers and by other means by Adolph Hitler's
Nazi Germany regime . This was known as the Holocaust.
• The U.S. did its best to stay out of World War II; however, in December 1941,
when Japan bombed the U.S. Naval Base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii in a surprise
attack , killing nearly 2,400 U.S. sailors, the U.S. joined in the fight .
• Palm Beach County played a vital role during World War II from training
thousands of pilots to fending off German U -boat attacks.
• As part of the National Civil Air Patrol, Coastal Patrol Base 3 was originally
established in 1942 at Morrison Field for civilian aviators searching for German
U-boats . It was moved to the newly opened Lantana Airport shortly after it
opened, as the Morrison Field was needed for military uses. The site is now the
Palm Beach County Park Airport.
• A U.S. Coast Guard Station , which had begun operations in 1936 on Peanut
Island, served as a base for coastal patrols and rescue missions during World
War II. The Coast Guard continued operations at this station until 1995.
• From 1942 to spring of 1944, The Breakers Hotel in Palm Beach became Ream
General Hospital . The repurposed facility treated thousands of wounded
soldiers who were transported from war fronts or military bases. It was named
after William Joy Ream, a major in the Medical Corps who was considered the
first “flying surgeon ” in the Army. With a bed capacity of 500, the hospital’s
specialty was neuropsychiatry , orthopedic, and plastic surgery. The Breakers
Cottages were also used as housing for medical staff.
Ream General Hospital
at The Breakers
es-of-healing -hotels -join-the-
world -war-ii-home- front -
effort.htm
called “Breakers Babies.” In 1944, famous visitors included First Lady Eleanor
Roosevelt and then -Missouri Senator Harry Truman ,
who toured the hospital and chatted with patients. After the war ended, the
Army returned the building to hotel management , and it reopened as a resort in
December 1944.
• The U.S. Coast Guard took control of all lighthouses during the war, including the Ju piter Inlet Lighthouse . The Coast Guard carefully kept watch over the
waters and skies from observation towers positioned along the coast and in
locations like the Lake Worth Casino. Beach watchers also patrolled the beaches
on horseback. More than 200 of these beach watchers lived in barracks at the
Gulf Stream Club located between Delray Beach and Boynton Beach.
German U -boat Attacks Lead to U.S. Naval Supplementary Radio Station J
• During the war, German U -boats attac ked 24 ships in Florida waters with the
U-564 solely responsible for all attacks off Palm Beach County.
13
• In an effort to combat these U -boats, the U.S. government established U.S.
Naval Supplementary Radio Station J at the Jupiter Inlet.
The installation was a secret operation using top -secre t, high -frequency
direction -finding designed to intercept U -boat radio
messages and tip -off U.S. forces to attack enemy vessels .14
• Once the radio messages were intercepted, the operators at the station could
pinpoint their locations. The U -boats surfaced at nigh t to charge their batteries
and send messages back to Germany . The information obtained at Station J
allowed U.S. aircraft to attack the U -boats. Because of the efforts of the
personnel at Station J, 30 German U -boats were destroyed off the coast of
Florida in May 1943, and an addition 37 were destroyed the following month.15
• The effort was so effective, it ended the German U -boat dominance in the
Atlantic.
A view of Station J from the
top of Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse
-
jupiter -world -war-ii-intercept -and-
direction -finding- site/
guard. The facility included an operations building with 24 radio receivers, two
barracks, a mess, administration and recreation hall, a garage and workshop,
tennis and volleyball courts, a house for the commanding officers, quarters for
families of six married men. Today, the married family quarters serve as the
lighthouse’s museum.16
Morrison Field
• Built in 1935, Morrison Field was a private airfield named after Grace K.
Morrison, who was instrumental in getting the field constructed.
• In 1941, the U.S. Army Air Corps began using Morrison Field for military
purposes . As a result, commercial and civilian services were relocated to the new
Lantana Airport six miles south.
• More than 45,000 pilots trained at or flew out of Morrison Field, including to
the D -Day invasion of Normandy, France. Some groups flew to India and on to
China, making stops in Puerto Rico, Brazil, Liberia and northern Africa, among
others. Up to 250 women also served at Morrison Field as part of the Women’s Army Corps.
• The Army Air Force also established the 1st Air Weather Group at Morrison in 1946, with the purpose of administering, training, equipping and organizing four
weather reconnaissance squadrons assigned to the Air Weather Service . With
photographers and a public relations officer on board, the 55th Squadron flew a B-29 over a hurricane for the first time in October 1946.
• The federal government wanted to make Morrison Field a permanent military
base after the war, but Palm Beach County took over airport operations in 1959.
• Today, the field serves as Palm Beach International Airport.
Morrison Field
during World War II
ory/news/politics/2017/02/1
8/state -checks -world -war-
ii/6759114007/
• At the beginning of World War II , Boca Raton Mayor J.C. Mitchell asked the Army
Air Corps to move its radar training school to Boca Raton. Radar was a new field
of study at the time. The Army Air Corps liked the location of the small airport
just north of downtown Boca Raton and the fact that it was relatively high and
dry, close to the ocean and shipping lanes, with a good climate for fl ying.
• Boca Raton Army Air Field opened in 1942 and it was the only airborne
radar training facility that existed during the war.
• BRAAF required a number of additional buildings to be constructed near the airpor t. Land was purchased from Palmetto Park Road to Yamato Road to provide
enough space for the buildings . Families still living in the Japanese community of
Yamato Colony were told to
move and their land was confiscated by the federal government to build the
base.
• The military also used the Boca Raton Club for housing and classrooms from
1942 to 1944. The club suffered from overcrowding and wartime conditions.
• Thousands of men went through training at BRAAF , including all of the Army Air
Force’s flight crews, singer Tony Martin, some of the Tuskegee Airmen, the crew of the Enola Gay, and future astronaut Gus Grissom. In addition, the Women’s
Army Nurse Corps and Women’s Army Corps served as nurses and secretaries on
the base.
• BRAAF remained in operation until 1947 when a hurricane struck Boca Raton ,
causing widespread flooding and extensive damage to the base’s buildings.
• In 1949, the Town of Boca Raton purchased 2,400 acres of BRAAF . Today, that
land is home to Florida Atlantic University and the Boca Raton Airport .
• The smaller base was downsized to the Boca Raton Auxiliary Air Force Base,
which operated until 1959.
Soldiers in radar training at
Boca Raton Army Airfield
- 
army -air-field
Military Uses of the Biltmore Hotel
• Opening in 1926, the former Palm Beach Biltmore Hotel boasted a golf course
and 350 rooms.
• From 1943, u ntil the end of the war , the hotel was turned over to the U nited
States military and converted into a hospital. Named Pratt General Hospital, it
could accommodate 1,400 soldiers recovering from ailments , such as rheumatic
fever or exposure-induced arthritis.
• It was also used as the first dedicated school for the Coast Guard Women’s
Reserve . An initial six- week boot camp incorporated physical training and classes
in organization, personnel, ships , and aircraft . More than 7,000 women went
through the training.
• Pratt General Hospital later became a Veterans Administration hospital ,
until closing in 1968.
Belle Glade POW Camp
• During World War II, the War Manpower Commission created prisoner-of-war
camps whose prisoners filled positions to alleviate labor shortages , due to
the war. Florida was home to 22 POW camps, one of which was located just
east of Belle Glade. From March to December 1945, 250 POWs were housed in
the camp. POWs worked in a bean -canning factory, helped build the Lake
Okeechobee Dike, and harvested sugarcane . When the Belle Glade camp closed,
its flagpole was given to the American Legion Post #20 in Belle Glade.
German POWs at a
Florida POW Camp
