Module 4
Exceeding Customer
Expectations
Module 4 Learn ing Objectives :
Exceeding Customer Expectations
• Explain the importance of exceeding customer expectations ,
for your organization and your community.
• List ways to listen – actively and passively – and the barriers to
effective listening.
• Describe how everything communicates, whether spoken or
unspoken.
• Describe ways to turn customer complaints into opportunities.
• Explain the importance of continuously improving upon your
customer service skills.
• Identify ways to leave a positive last impression following
every visitor encounter .
When someone gives you poor service, what do you think about th at person?
Going through the motions? Doesn’t care about customers?
This module focuses on the attitudes and behaviors of front-line CTAs to continually
exceed customer expectations.
The way our visitors are treated influences what they say to others during their stay
and after they leave, which can either hurt or help our destination’s image and future
tourism . Continually honing your customer service and people skills is vitally important .
These are skills you will have for the
rest of your life – that you will
take with you into every job.
Exceeding Customer Expectations
Module 4 – Reading
CTAs are professionals and welcome the chance to refresh their customer service skills.
Ongoing tourism customer service refreshers help you develop, enhance, and build
upon the skills you use to take care of visitors and meet their needs.
These experiences contribute to customer loyalty, which translates into repeat business. The better your customer service skills are, the better your company’s business will do, which will ultimately be considered in your own performance appraisal and, possibly,
higher wages or tips.
The visitor is the one thing that binds us all together as CTAs.
Customer service skills
make the customer
feel valued…
and the visitor experience unique
and enjoyable.
‘Mapping the Visitor Experience’ is thinking about what the visitor experiences from the
time they leave home, to the time they return.
Basically, this means if you were to write down everything the visitor did or things that happened to them on their tr ip, you would create a ‘map’.
They traveled here .
They checked into their hotel.
They ate out.
They went sightseeing.
They went shopping.
They returned ho me. ‘Mapping’ is what they did and
their many experiences along the
way.
Whether you realize it or not,
you’ve been on the receiving end
of visitor mapping. Like when your friends or relatives returned from a trip and told you about
their experienc e – good or bad.
They may have driven or flown a long distanc e…
They may have lost their luggage…
They ma y have been
swamped before they left…
They may have traveled with children…
They just want to get here, get settled in,
and start having fun.
When they see YOU, they want a smile, some help, and some reassurance that
they’ve made the right decision to come to our beautiful part of the world.
This reinforces how YOU are the brand for the destination.
YOU are one of many steps along their journey that makes or breaks their stay .
That’s why when they see you…
they want a smile.
C. Exceeding Customer Expectations
Every customer goes into a place of business expecting a certain level of service.
This is called ‘customer expectations.’
What does it mean to “ meet expectations ” or “ exceed expectations ?”
Are they the same thing? No, they are not.
Think about buying a car. Let’s assume that you
love the car but had a terrible experience with the
dealership. The product was good, but service
was bad, which led to a bad experience.
It might be expressed as a simple equation:
Product + Service = A Bad Experience
Now, let’s use a similar example common in the tourism industry. A visitor goes to a
restaurant and enjoys good service, but the food is poor.
Product + Service = A Bad Experience
But the server realized that her customers were not happy, so she offered a free dessert. Now look at it…
Product + Service = A Good Experience
But she didn’t stop there. She knew her supervisor would support giving them a coupon for a discount on their next meal. Now look at it…
Product + Service = A Memorable Experience
That’s what we mean by exceeding customer expectations . The server put the
“WOW” factor into the experience.
not taken the steps to turn it into a memorable experience.
Would the visitor ever return? What would they tell others?
And that’s only counting those visitors staying in hotels! It doesn’t include those
staying elsewhere, staying with friends or relatives, or driving in and out on a day trip.
What can I do? I’m just one person.
The beauty of the CTA program is that you’re not just one person .
You are part of an important group of professionals who are working to enhance the
visitor experience. All visitor encounters, collectively,
make up the total visitor experience.
As you can see, the power of each Certified Tourism Ambassador ™ is tremendous.
YOU want to be remembered.
YOU want to stand out from your competitors.
YOU want customers coming back.
This requires that you exceed customer expectations,
by delivering exceptional customer service.
There are approximately 19,000 hotel rooms in
The Palm Beaches . On average…
•About 12,920 of the hotel rooms in our area are occupied
daily by 1.5 people per room = 19,380 people per day.
•These 19,380 people have at least two ‘encounters’
resulting in
2 x 19,380 or 38,760 contacts per day!
•That means 38,760 opportunities each day to
GET IT RIGHT and to MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
Let’s Do the Math…
Customer Expectations
Here are some basic rules and skills that provide guiding principles for all CTAs.
As you read each, celebrate those skills you’ve mastered, and those you wish
to improve.
Rule #1 – ATTEND TO THE CUSTOMER
Attend to the customer. They are your number one priority!
• The customer always comes first.
• Meet their needs.
• Answer their questions or refer them to someone
who can.
• Watch for approaching customers. Focus on them as they approach.
• If you’re busy, acknowledge them and use these
powerful words:
“We’ll be right with you.”
• Smile and give them your full attention.
Stop multi -tasking.
• Engage them ; maintain eye contact. Make them
feel special.
• Eliminate side conversations. Focus on their needs,
not yours.
• Be genuine. Make them feel like you’ve invited them into your living room.
• Happy customers mean less stress and more fun on the job for you and your co-workers.
• Realize their importance – without them, you
wouldn’t have a job ! FACT: The customer makes your job possible. You have a job because of the customer.
Rule #2 – EVERYTHING COMMUNICATES
FACT: Whether you’re speaking or not, you’re communicating .
Think of what is communicated to customers when they see long lines, sloppy dress,
excessive small talk, or a dirty work area.
Everything communicates when it comes to the customer.
• Attitude – make sure it’s positive and helpful.
• Appearance – Maintain a professional and confident
presence. It shows that you care about yourself and
your customers.
• Cleanliness – Strive for a clean body, clean clothes, and
a clean work area.
• Friendliness – Let them know you’re glad they’re here!
• Body Language – Watch your body language. Make sure
it’s positive.
• Set the Stage – Before you start work, think of the above
and do what a fellow CTA does. Before he goes into the
hotel lobby, he puts on his badge and says, “It’s show time! ”
Which one would you prefer to serve your table?
Better yet, which one would you hire?
Everything communicates.
Rule #3 – CREATE A POSITIVE ENVIRONMENT
FACT: Negative comments or attitudes and customer service don’t mix.
Negative comments can destroy the visitor experience.
• Make all experiences positive regardless of
your personal problems.
• If something goes wrong, never blame others,
especially in front of a customer.
• Don’t cut down the competition.
• Avoid negative comparisons about businesses
or people.
• Never air your ‘dirty laundry ’ or gossip in
front of the customer ; it makes you look
unprofessional.
Rule #4 – LISTEN TO THE CUSTOMER
FACT: Customers are not interruptions to your work –they are your work !
Effective listening is a skill that can be carried
with you for life.
• Effective listeners keep their ego
from getting in the way.
• Ask questions and listen to
their answers.
• Clarify what they want or need.
Make sure you understand.
• Listen for what’s interesting to them , not necessarily to you.
• Ask “What are your interests? What would you like to see or do?”
• Be patient. If you’re feeling impatient, imagine you are serving your elderly aunt – the aunt you
love dearly. Active Listening
is hearing what the customer
is saying .
Passive Listening
is finishing the customer’s
sentences, interrupting,
or doing something else
while they’re talking , like
multi -tasking .
Effective listening is a skill
that can be carried with
you for life.
If you can’t say
something
positive, don’t say
anything at all.
Rule #5 – KNOW YOUR JOB
FACT: The more you know about your job, the more you will enjoy doing it.
• Be good at what you do. Convey enthusiasm.
• Ask your boss for feedback on how you’re doing.
• Recommend new ways of doing things.
• Think continuous improvement …think about ways to make your
customer service more effective, easier.
• What else can you learn? Know your company’s history, plus ‘cool
trivia’ and ‘tourist tips’.
• Be aware of the value that a diverse workforce brings to our area
– a tapestry of physical abilities, cultures, and experiences.
• Know what’s going on; stay current on major events.
• Take initiative. The only person who knows best how to improve
the quality of your work is you .
Rule #6 – VIEW COMPLAINTS AS OPPORTUNITIES
FACT: Every complaint is an opportunity to exceed customer expectations.
• When you can’t say Yes, never
say No.
• Use the complaint as an
opportunity to exceed expectations.
• Make eye contact. Show concern. Be empathetic.
• Listen and ask questions to find out the cause of the complaint.
• Take ownership. Tell the customer what you intend to
do and then do it .
• Stay with the problem until you have it resolved. Don’t turn them over to someone else unless you
know they can fix the problem.
• If someone else can help them,
make the introduction , then
explain the complaint. Don’t make the customer tell or
re-live it all over again. • Know your company’s policies.
Ask your supervisor h ow far you
can go to ‘make it right’ e.g., money back, discount coupon,
freebie, etc.
• Never say, “There’s nothing I
can do.” You must try. They’ll
appreciate it.
• Don’t take it personally.
• Say “I’m sorry. May I try to straighten things out?”
These words show action and
make you look professional.
• Talk with your co-workers about
how they handle complaints. Learn all you can from them.
• Learn something from every complaint.
Learn something from
every complaint.
Become an advocate
and proud ambassador
for our area.
Exceeding customer expectations = going the extra mile :
• Go beyond what’s expected of you.
• Give them something ‘extra’ every opportunity.
• Use the tools and resources available to you.
• Help them with what they’re interested in
seeing or doing.
• Work with your colleagues around the area to
create a unique visitor experience.
Rule #8 – IMPROVE YOUR CUSTOMER SERVICE SKILLS
FACT: Everyone can improve their customer service skills.
• Be aware of how you are serving the customer.
• Work to grow your skills.
• Watch others and learn from them.
• Do the right things right!
• Work with your team to polish their skills .
Support and build the team.
• Never say “That’s not my job” or leave the
customer hanging.
• Take responsibility. Serve the customer as if you owned the business!
Rule #9 – TAKE PRIDE IN YOUR WORK
FACT: The surest way to NOT deliver exceptional
customer service is to choose not to.
Accountability for your customer service starts and
ends with you.
• Don’t let others convince you it’s not ‘cool’ to provide exceptional customer service.
• Believe in yourself. Be self -confident.
• Always deliver quality.
• Never stop learning and growing.
• Take pride in who you are and the job you do.
• Never forget how important you ar e to our
area’s tourism and economic development.
Rule #7 – GO THE EXTRA MILE
FACT: Every visitor appreciates something extra.
Rule #10 – LEAVE A POSITIVE LASTING IMPRESSION
FACT: The customer will remember yo u, if you exceed their expectations.
The final impression is as important as the first impression.
When you’ve paid money for something, how many times has a person told
you thanks, by smiling and making sincere eye contact?
How many times have you actually felt they were glad to have your business?
Not many?
What you say and do at the end of the visitor encounter leaves a lasting impressio n:
• Thank them for their business. And mean it!
• Make eye contact, smile, and use positive body language.
• A robotic ‘thank you’ is worse than nothing at all.
• Encourage them to allow you to serve them again.
• Leave the visitor with this message, in your own words:
Thanks for coming to our great city !
We hope you’ll tell others what a
great place we have here and that
you’ll come back soon!
Consistency of message across our destination is one of the goals of the CTA program –
having CTAs deliver similar messages to visitors at critical moments during their stay.
This ensures consistency in the quality of the service CTAs provide to the visitor.
Below you will find common visitor questions or interactions and suggested responses. How do these responses compare with those you would typically use? Are they similar?
Study them closely and begin to memorize the responses.
You don’t have to use these exact word s, use your own style to
get the message across. You might like to ‘try these on’ for a while.
With a little practice, they’ll become second nature.
When said with sincerity and with a smile, they’re bound to have a
positive impact on our visitors.
Think of the impact this will have across our area when hundreds of CTAs give these
responses to visitors at every opportunity!
CTA Response #1:
What is a CTA?
In your own words:
“It stands for Certified Tourism Ambassador.
It’s industry certification for people like me who have
been trained and certified to help make sure our
visitors have a great experience.”
What is there to do around here ?
CTA Response #3:
Can you recommend X over Y?
Don’t disparage other businesses:
CTA Response #4:
The CTA Closing Statement.
At the end of every visitor encounter , in your own words:
If you were to go somewhere on vacation and you heard similar words consistently
throughout your stay, wouldn’t you be impressed? You’d probably say ,
“Wow, this place really gets it!”
That’s what will make a difference – consistent messaging from the front- line.
Imagine the power of YOU and fellow CTAs combined!
“There’s a lot to do. How much time
do you have and what are your interests?”
“That’s a good place. You may also want
to try restaurant A or B.”
“Thanks for coming to our great city. We hope you’ll
tell others what a great place we have here
and that you’ll come back soon!”
F. Summary and Key Messages
Key messages in Module 4 include:
• Do your very best to turn every visitor encounter into a positive experience.
• Continuously refine and improve your customer service skills.
• Develop the habit of going the extra mile when serving visitors.
• Know the elements that contribute to the visitor experience – map the visitor
experience.
• Be aware of the consequences of visitors having good – vs. bad – experiences.
• Focus on the customer rather than yourself.
• Listen attentively and actively. Ask questions.
• Use the resources and tools that are available to you.
• Determine with your supervisor how far you can go in handling problems.
• Know the importance of a smile and what a smile communicates to visitors.
• Never blame others, especially in conversations with visitors or customers.
• Don’t degrade competitors, attractions , or events.
• Say something positive or say nothing at all.
• View complaints as opportunities to create and share a positive experience.
• Everything communicates – attitude, appearance, cleanliness, friendliness ,
and body language; 90% of communication is non -verbal.
• End every encounter with the CTA closing statement – it’ll have a lasting
impact!
Section
Earning the CTA Designation
IV
A. Requirements to Earn the CTA Designation
As this is a n industry-recognized designation , Discover The Palm Beaches is required to
ensure that you have met the requirements to earn the CTA designation.
After the conclusion of the classroom training session, you will be evaluated as to whether you have satisfactorily:
• Completed the required reading and pre-class exercises
• Demonstrated active participation in all classroom exercises
• Completed all assignments
• Earned a passing score on the open -book exam at the end of
the classroom session
• Demonstrated your commitment to becoming a CTA and to
renewing you r certification annually
B. Notification to CTA Candidates
1. After your classroom session you will be notified whether you have satisfied
requirements for the CTA designation .
2. If you are successful, you will receive acknowledgment from your local
administrator, a printable Certificate, a printable CTA Card, and an attractive
lapel pin designating you as certified . See Section II for more details .
3. If you are not successful, you r local administrator will be in touch.
C. Good Luck!! Thank you for your interest in this exciting program. You’re on your
way to becoming a CTA !
NOTE: The Tourism Ambassador Institute® , as the accrediting body, grants Accredited
Providers the accreditation rights to present, on behalf of the
TAI, the CTA designation to individuals satisfactorily complet ing all program requirements. To
maintain their accreditation status, Accredited Providers must annually conform to quality
assurance standards. This requirement is established to maintain uniform standards of quality for the CTA designation. Therefore, please be sure to contact your local program administrator,
if you have questions about the program or the requirements to achieve the CTA designation.
THE PALM BEACHES
TOURISM ASSADOR PROGRAM
Glossary of Terms
CDME – Certified Destination M anagement Executive, offered by D estinations
International to CVBs and DMOs across the world
COC – Chamber of Commerce
CTA – Certified Tourism Ambassador ™
CVB – Convention & Visitors Bureau
DI – Destinations International
DMO – Destination Marketing Organization
TAI – Tourism Ambassador Institute
U.S. Travel Association
• Appendix 1 - Landmarks
“What’s that building?”
Our destination’s buildings, neighborhoods, historic homes, and other landmarks speak
to who we are and where we’ve been. Read on to be able to answer a visitor when they
ask, “What’s that building?”
Our Historic Districts
Atlantic Avenue – From Swinton Avenue on the west to the A1A on the east, Delray
Beach, FL, 33483
• In addition to its many shops and restaurants, Atlantic Avenue contains some of Delray Beach’s oldest and most important buildings, including the 1913 Delray
Schoolhouse which houses the Cornell Museum of Art , the Colony Hotel (see
below), the Boyd Building , and the Arcade Tap Room. The Tap Room is where
some of the most famous cartoonists of the 1920s and 30s hung out. It was often frequented by Fontaine Fox and Jim Raymond .
• Atlantic Avenue also intersects with Old School Square Historic Arts District and
the Marina Historic District.
Central Park Historic District – Roughly bounded along FL 805 and S. Olive Avenue from
Monroe Drive to Southern Boulevard, West Palm Beach, FL, 33406
• The homes in the Central Park Historic District were built mainly between 1922 and 1949. Their architectural styles include Mission, Craftsman, Bungalow, Monterey, American Foursquare, Colonial Revival, and Minimal Traditions. The Colony Hotel on
Atlantic Avenue
s-resorts/colony -hotel -and-
cabana -club/
Appendix 1 – Our Landmarks
to the Prospect Park Historic District .
Clematis Street Historic Commercial District – 500 Block of Clematis St., West Palm
Beach, FL, 33401
• The commercial buildings in this area were constructed between 1918 and 1929.
• Significant historic buildings include the Spanish Colonial Revival-style Jennings
Building , the Renaissance Revival-style Sirkin Building , the Campbell Building ,
Sewell Hardware , The Ketchum Dry Goods Store , and Suther’s Market .
College Park Historic District – Roughly bounded by Maryland Dr., N. Federal Highway,
19
th Avenue, and N. Dixie Highway, Lake Worth, FL, 33460
• The earliest homes in this district were built between December 1924 and May 1925. These homes were marketed during the Florida land boom. Within the first three hours, 90% of the lots were sold. Edgewood Realty Company was the developer of the neighborhood. In order to maintain an upscale neighborhood, Edgewood required that all lots be at least 50 feet wide, and each home had to
cost at least $5,000. Several of the earlier homes in the district were built in the
Mediterranean Revival and Mission -style arc hitecture.
• A second building boom occurred in Florida in the 1940s. Homes built in the
neighborhood at that time are slab on grade masonry houses characterized by
Masonry Vernacular, International, and Ranch architectural styles.
• The neighborhood’s streets are all named after prominent American colleges or universities .
Clematis Street Historic
Commercial District
Avenue to the west and NE 3rd Avenue to the east, Delray Beach, FL, 33444
• This neighborhood was one of Delray Beach’s first planned developments.
• The homes here were built between 1920 and the 1940s and reflect mainly the
Mediterranean Revival and Craftsman Bungalow architectural styles. Other styles include Mission -Revival, Bungalows, and Frame Vernacular.
• The neighborhood features a unique, diagonal street pattern with curvilinear corners, creating triangular blocks with pie -shaped parks.
Downtown Boca Raton – Bordered on the west by SW 3
rd Avenue and Crawford
Avenue, on the south by SE 11th Street, on the east by SE 5th Avenue, and on the north
by NE 3th Street and NE Mizner Boulevard, Boca Raton, FL, 33432
• As mentioned, in 1925, architect Addison Mizner planned the layout of Downtown Boca Raton. Although all of Mizner’s plans for the town didn’t come to fruition, due to the end of the Florida land boom, the Old Town Hall (see
below) was completed in 1927. Other historic buildings in the area include the FEC Railway Passenger Station and administrative buildings that today house
The Addison of Boca Raton , an event venue.
El Cid Historic District – Roughly bounded by Flamingo Dr., S. Flagler Dr., Dyer Rd, and S.
Dixie Highway, West Palm Beach, FL, 33401
• The El Cid Historic District was developed mainly during the 1920s Florida land boom. It was developed by Pittsburgh socialite John “Jay” Shaffer Phipps (See
Section 3 – Our Influential Citizens, Page 71) the son of Henry Phipps, who
partnered with Andrew Carnegie to form U.S. Steel. The younger Phipps assembled old pineapple fields and other property upon which he built and sold
expensive Mediterranean Revival and Mission -style homes. Downtown
Boca Raton
wntown -boca.php
shore of Lake Worth brought affluent business, political, and social leaders to the neighborhood.
• Phipps named this development of mainly Spanish-style home after Rodrigo
Diaz de Bivar who led Castilians and Iberian Moors to conquer
Valencia, Spain in 1094. The moors called him “Cid ,” an Arabic term meaning
“lord.”
Flamingo Park Historic Residential District – Bounded by Park Pl., Parker Ave.,
Belvedere Rd., and Florida Ave., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401
• Built on the highest of coastal ridges between downtown West Palm Beach and Miami , Flamingo Park was home to many prominent citizens when it was built in
the early 1920s. Like many other Palm Beach County historic districts, the area
grew rapidly during the Florida land boom. Similar to those areas, the
architecture reflects the Missio n, Mediterranean Revival, and Frame Vernacular
styles.
• One of the most significant homes here is the Alfred J. Comeau House at 701
Flamingo Drive, built in 1924. Comeau was a prominent businessman who also
built one of West Palm Beach’s first skyscrapers.
Grandview Heights Historic District – Roughly bounded by Park Pl., Alabama Ave., M St.,
and S. Lake Ave., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401
• Established in 1910, the Grandview Heights neighborhood’s first residents were
ministers, downtown shopkeepers, and the construction workers who built Palm Beach’s resorts. Most of the historic homes in the neighborhood were completed by 1925.
• By the 1990s, many of the homes in the neighborhood had significantly declined. The City of West Palm Beach purchased approximately half of the
Alfred J. Comeau House in
the Flamingo Park Historic Residential District
which included the Kravis Center for the Performing Arts (See Section 8 –
Uniquely The Palm Beaches, Page 110), CityPlace , and the Palm Beach County
Convention Center .
• During this time, people began desiring an urban living lifestyle, with the district
growing in popularity. Today, it is one of the most popular neighborhoods in West Palm Beach.
Historic Old Town Commercial Center/Downtown Lake Worth Beach – Bounded by
FEC, M St., Lucerne Ave., and 1 Ave. South, Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33460
• Downtown Lake Worth Beach is known as “Old Town.” Most of the buildings
were built in the 1920s, but there are also buildings of historic significance that
were built between 1912 and 1949. The post office dates to 1912 and the Casino
and Bathing Pavilion were built in 1919. A block schoolhouse was built in 1916 that became the City Hall in 1927. The City’s Municipal Auditorium was built in 1933.
• Architectural styles in this district include Art Deco, Mission, Mediterranean Revival, and Wood Frame Vernacular.
Jupiter Inlet Historic and Archaeological Site – 400 N. Delaware Blvd., Jupiter, FL, 33458
• Native Americans used the Jupiter Inlet for transportation because it was the
only outlet for the Loxahatchee River, Lake Worth Creek, and the Jupiter Sound,
with part of the flow from the St. Lucie and Indian Rivers diverting to the ocean
through the Jupiter Inlet, as well.
• This location was the site of the Jeaga village of Hobe , which
was later changed to Jove and inspired the name of the town of Jupiter.
• Built in 1898, the DuBois Pioneer Home (See Section 1 – Our Area’s Early History,
Page 45) is one of the last homestead buildings remaining in Palm Beach County.
It was built of Florida pine by Florida pioneers Harry and Susan DuBois and is
Downtown
Lake Worth Beach
Discover The Palm Beaches
Jeaga people.
• Artifacts found in the mound include pieces of pottery, bone- handled
toothbrushes, and a faceted Chevron bead that is thought to have been produced
in Italy in the 14th century. These beads were used only by wealthy individuals for
trading.
• The home and the mound are jointly listed on the National Register of Historic
Places as the Jupiter Inlet Historic and Archaeological Site.
Mango Promenade Historic District – Bounded by S. Dixie Hwy., Austin Ln., Coconut Ln.,
and Cranesnest Way, West Palm Beach, FL, 33401
• Platted from 1912 to 1936, t he Man go Promenade neighborhood was one of
West Palm Beach’s earliest upper-middle class suburbs . The neighborhood
features early accommodations for automobiles. This is evident in the fact that the garages were built at the same time as the homes.
• South Dixie Highway contains commercial buildings , so the neighborhood is a
true, mixed -use district.
• Unique to the neighborhood are two pedestrian- only walkways. The brick -
paved Mango Promenade connects the South Dixie Highway to S. Olive Avenue,
and the Orange Court connects the South Dixie Highway to S. Flagler Drive. Each
served as walkways for the houses, while cars accessed garage entrances on parallel alley ways.
• Architectural styles in the district include American Foursquare, Craftsman Bungalow, Colonial Revival, Mediterranean Revival, Queen Anne, Dutch Colonial,
and Monterey.
Mango Promenade
Historic District
• The Marina Historic District is one of Delray Beach’s most pedestrian -friendly
neighborhoods with narrow and shaded streets. The area was home to many
prominent seasonal residents who appreciated its close proximity to the ocean
and the Intracoastal Waterway.
• One of the notable buildings in this district is the Christian Science Church
on 7th Avenue.
• Architectural styles here include Monterey, Florida Cottages, Art Moderna, Mediterranean Revival, and Mission Revival.
Nassau Park Historic District – Boundaries include the two -block area of Nassau St.
between Venetian Dr. to the west and S. Ocean Blvd. to the east, Delray Beach, FL, 33483
• With homes built between 1935 and 1941, the Nassau Park Historic District was Delray Beach’s first planned residential development south of Atlantic Avenue.
It was built to compl ement the surrounding resorts and hotels along South
Ocean Boulevard and to exemplify the 1930s Delray Beach resort life. However,
the smaller scale of these homes reflects a time when people with money did not want to flaunt it.
• The neighborhood is home to 17 one- and two-story cottages built in the Cape
Cod Revival and Minimal Traditional Style.
• Nassau Street was originally named Jo -Jo Avenue , but the name was changed by
developer R.C. MacNeil who commissioned the first house built in the area.
Nassau Park
Historic District
-park -historic -district -
delray -beach
Poinsettia Ave. on the east., Broadway on the west, and 36th St. on the south, West
Palm Beach, FL, 33407
• The homes in the Northboro Park neighborhood were built between the 1920s
and 50s. Architecture styles here include Vernacular, Frame and Masonry Vernacular, Minimal Traditional, Mission Revival, and Romanesque Revival.
Northwest Historic District – Roughly bounded by Tamarind Ave. on the east, 11
th St. on
the south, Rosemary Ave. on the west, and 3rd St. on the north, West Palm Beach, FL,
33401
• The Northwest Historic District was once a segregated African American community that was first settled in 1894. It consisted of both the Northwest
neighborhood and Pleasant City . The Northwest Historic District was the larger of the two and was the residential and commercial core of the area.
• Today, the neighborhood is still a predominantly Black area, although many of the middle and upper class have moved to other sections of town.
• The main architectural styles found in this neighborhood include Frame and Masonry Vernacular, Shotgun, Bungalow Craftsman, and Mission. Several of the churches in the area were designed in the Gothic Revival style.
Historic Old Northwood/Northwood Village 
• Built between 1920 and 1927, during the Florida land boom , these homes were
considered luxurious .
• It was the place to live at this time, as wealthy people from around the country
flocked to the neighborhood, paying between $30,000 and $36,000 per home.
Most of the residents were successful professionals and politicians, including the
mayor of West Palm Beach.
• Today, the Northwood Village Creative Arts District is located in the district.
Comprised of one-of-a- kind shops, galleries, restaurants, and cafes, the village
gives off a bohemian vibe.
• The dominant architecture in this neighborhood is Mediterranean Revival with a
few Mission and Vernacular homes.
Palmway St., and N. O St. from Lake Ave. to 7th Ave. N., Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33460
• In 1906, 500,000 acres of the Florida Everglades were drained in hopes of
converting the land to farms.
• In 1912, the Palm Beach Farms Company purchased 60,000 of those acres and
named the area “Lucerne.” As previously mentioned, it was realized that this name was already taken by another town in Florida, so the name was changed to “Lake Worth ,” which was incorporated in 1913.
Old School Square Historic Arts District – Bounded by Lake Ida Rd, NE 1
st Ave., SW 2nd
St., and North Swinton Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33483
• The Old School Square district is situated in the original geographic center of Delray Beach, and it is the town’s largest historic district.
• The buildings were built between 1902 and 1945. Every pre- World War I and II
Vernacular architectural style in Delray Beach is found in this district. Other styles include Masonry Vernacular, Craftsman Bungalow, Mission, and Mediterranean Revival.
• Many of the buildings in this area have been repurposed for production of the arts, including the Delray Beach Center for the Arts at Old School Square and the
Cornell Art Museum.
Pleasant City – Bordered on the north by 23
rd St. and 15th St., on the east by Dixie
Highway, on the south by 16th St., and on the west by the Florida East Coast Railway,
West Palm Beach, FL, 33405
• Established in 1904, Pleasant City is the oldest neighborhood founded by African Americans in West Palm Beach. Many of the initial residents were
workers who came to the area to extend the Florida East Coast Railroad from
Cornell Art Museum
at Old School Square
Royal Poinciana Hotel and Whitehall.
• When the neighborhood was platted, the founders chose pleasant names for the
roads, including Happy Street, Merry Place, and Cheerful Street.
Prospect Park/Southland Park Historic District – Bounded by Lake Worth, S. Dixie Hwy,
Moncaux Rd, and Monroe Dr., West Palm Beach, FL, 33409
• The buildings in this neighborhood were built between 1900 and 1945. The architectural style represented here is mainly late 19
th and 20th Century American
Revival.
• This district represents the historic commercial center of Palm Beach with buildings constructed between 1915 and 1954.
• A variety of architectural styles have been used in the district, including Vernacular, American Foursquare, Neoclassical Revival, Mission Revival,
Mediterranean Revival, Art Moderna, and Mid -Century Modern.
Vedado Historic District – Roughly bounded by Merrill Ave., Southern Blvd on the south,
Parker Ave. on the east, and Paseo Morella, West Palm Beach, FL, 33405
• Most of the homes in this neighborhood were built in the 1940s and 50s.
• A few dates to the 1920s, when the neighborhood became the first suburb in
West Palm Beach . Most of the homes are one story in this district.

• Settled in 1894, this neighborhood was the first African American neighborhood
in Delray Beach. The area was called “The Sands” because of its sandy soil .
Many of the residents in the neighborhood wor ked on nearby farms .
• The architectural style of the early homes in the district are Frame Vernacular, as settlers built their own homes utilizing local materials. Homes built in the 1920s
are of Bungalow and Mission Revival styles.
• As educational and religious institutions were important to the residents, a
school, three churches, and a Masonic lodge were all built in the district
between 1895 and 1920.
• Notable buildings in the area include Mount Olive Baptist Church and La France
Hotel. Discover It: Walking tour brochures of the neighborhood are available at
the Spady Cultural Heritage Museum West Settlers District Walking Tour
Brochures – -tour/
Worth Avenue/Via Mizner – Bounded by 337 -339 Worth Ave., Palm Beach, FL, 33480
• This shopping avenue was one of the first areas developed in Palm Beach when
it was named in 1913 for General William Jenkins Worth who fought in the Second Seminole War.
• In 1918, architects Addison Mizner and Paris Singer built the Everglades Club at
the western end of Worth Avenue, introducing the Mediterranean architectural
style. Mizner also designed and built an office building on the street to house his
architectural studio and related businesses. Today that building is a three-
bedroom apartment.
• In 1924, Mizner began working on the three -story Villa Mizner building , with
shopping on the ground floor and residences above. Mizner himself occupied one
Worth Avenue
Discover The Palm Beaches
the adjacent Via Mizner shopping complex.
• Through the 1940s, the avenue developed to include shops, courtyards
connected by pedestrian “vias,” and landscape features including tiled fountains,
sculptures, and shaded benches.
• Via Mizner extends from Worth Avenue adding to the concept of a European -
influenced pedestrian village.
• Discover It: Walking tours of Worth Avenue are offered by Historic Walking Tours
of Worth Avenue – worth -avenue.com .
Our Historic Landmarks
• Built initially as the Cloister Inn by architect Addison Mizner, The Boca Raton has been renovated several times.
• In November 1927, Clarence Geist , one of Mizner’s investors, purchased the
hotel as a wintertime golf resort to complement his summer golf resort in New
Jersey. He added two additional golf courses to the three that already existed and tripled the size of the resort. The name was changed to The Boca Raton Club,
and it operated as a private club where only members and their guests could stay. This made it very popular with those who didn’t want to live in the
limelight.
• The hotel never made a profit . In 1942 during World War II, Geist’s widow leased
the hotel to the U.S. government to be used as housing for the Boca Raton Army Air Field .
• In 1944, after the war had ended, the hotel was purchased by hotelier J. Myer
Schine who painted it in its famous pink color and promoted it heavily as The Boca Raton
