
Palm Beach State College has campuses in Belle Glade, Boca Raton, Loxahatchee,
and Palm Beach Gardens , with its largest in Lake Worth. Founded in 1933 as
Florida’s first public community college, Palm Beach State College now serves
more than 36,000 students from more than 150 countries across its campuses and online. In addition to offering associate’s degree programs, the school also
offers bac helor’s degree programs, professional certificates , customized career
training, and corporate and continuing education. For more information, see

North Region
• Jupiter is a favorite for families , as well as celebrities like Tiger Woods. Splash
your days away on gorgeous beaches, and wind down watching yachts pass by at a local tiki bar.
• Just down the coast is Juno Beach, where daily life revolves around the Juno
Beach Pier; rise early to catch one of the best sunrises in Florida, then spend the day surfing, fishing , or visiting the turtles at Loggerhead Marinelife Center.
• World -class golf, shopping , and resorts can be found in Palm Beach Gardens .
• If you prefer to spend your vacation exploring beneath the water’s surface, Riviera Beach and Singer Island is a hot spot for snorkeling and scuba
diving.
Central Region
• Central Palm Beach County is home to The Palm Beaches’ biggest city: West Palm
Beach . Perched on the shore of shimmering Lake Worth Lagoon, this city is a
haven of arts, culture, entertainment, events, restaurants , and nightlife.
• Just across the bridge is the T own of Palm Beach , America’s First Resort
Destination™ . Discover historic hotels and luxurious resorts, fine dining , and one
of the most iconic shopping districts in the world, Worth Avenue.
• Lake Worth Beach is among the quirkiest beach towns in Florida and is home to
one of the region’s largest LGBTQ+ communities.
• To the west is Wellington , known as the Winter Equestrian Capital of the World.
West Region
• Continue driving west and you’ll reach Lake Okeechobee and The Glades , where
a slower pace and agricultural setting offer a lesser -seen side of Florida.
• A cluster of farming communities includes the cities of Belle Glade, Pahokee, and
South Bay – known together as The Glades . Together, they form a major hub of
Florida’s agricultural heartland, as well as being a big draw for anglers.
• The Glades are our gateway to the Everglades , the largest subtropical wilderness
in the United States. Its waters provide an important habitat for numerous and
endangered species like the manatee.
28
Boating on Lake Okeechobee
Discover The Palm Beaches
• Venture to southern Palm Beach County to find Boynton Beach , offering boating,
water sports, and a laid -back flip -flop vibe year -round.
• Next is t he creative community of Delray Beach , a buzzing hub of entertainment ,
dining, nightlife, and the arts.
• Boca Raton is a dynamic city that loves its art, architecture, culture, and cuisine
just as much as its beautiful, palm -fringed beaches.
Our area is filled with resorts, performing arts, food, shops, parks, and festivals that can
only be found here and are what make The Palm Beaches so unique.
America’s First Resort DestinationTM
• As previously mentioned, Henry Flagler (See Section 3 – Our Influential Citizens,
Page 71) built the Royal Poinciana Hotel along Palm Beach in 1894, followed by
The Breakers in 1896. This led to branding The Palm Beaches as America’s First
Resort DestinationTM – the only destination developed exclusively for tourism.
• Today, The Palm Beaches are still known for resort life at locations like Eau Palm
Beach Resort & Spa, The Boca Raton, Four Seasons, Brazilian Court Hotel , The
Colony Palm Beach , and PGA National Resort.
Section 8 – Uniquely The Palm Beaches
Lobby in
The Boca Raton
Discover The Palm Beaches
Those wanting to treat the mind, body, and spirit are in luck when they visit The Palm Beaches . We’re home to some of the world’s best spas – each offering rejuvenating
settings, incredible treatments, and impeccable service.
• The “self -centered garden” at the Eau Spa at Eau Palm Beach Resort has a
dipping pool and hanging chairs. This Forbes Five Star Award -winning spa also
offers decadent treatments that combine oriental teas, precious oils and butters,
as well as signature facials and peels.
• The Breakers has an exquisite indoor outdoor spa and the property features
other wellness activities like golf, tennis, and best -in-class Ocean Fitness c enter.
• Those wanting a holistic approach will appreciate the Tammy Fender Spa at
Opal Grand in downtown Delray Beach , featuring the work of holistic pract itioner
Tammy Fender.
• Spa Palmera at The Boca Raton is a luxurious experience and is another Forbes
Five Star Award-winning spa.
• It seems the opportunity to relax and rejuvenate in our many spas is around every corner in The Palm Beaches. See the Discover Th e Palm Beaches Official
Visitors Guide or website for more locations and information.
-wellness
Eau Spa at
Eau Palm Beach Resort
Discover The Palm Beaches
The Palm Beaches have been the backdrop for dozens of movies and television shows
throughout the years . Streaming services like Apple TV, Peacock, Netflix, Hulu, BBC, and
Paramount+ have also used Palm Beach County in recent years as a backdrop for many
shows .
Movies
• The Irishman used The Palm Beaches to shoot its warmer climate scenes
including at Lantana Airport and Palm Beach Kennel Club.
• The Baywatch film featured scenes in Boca Raton, Hillsboro Beach, and
nearby Deerfield Beach.
• Palm Beach County was the backdrop for much of Robert De Niro’s The
Comedian including Palm Beach International Airport, The Colony Hotel,
and Worth Avenue.
• Opening scenes of Marley & Me were filmed in downtown West Palm
Beach.
• 2 Fast 2 Furious was filmed in West Palm Beach and Boca Raton.
• A house explosion in Bad Boys 2 was filmed in Delray Beach.
• Many scenes in Heartbreakers were filmed at The Breakers in Palm Beach.
• Donnie Brasco included scenes filmed at the Palm Beach Kennel Club in
West Palm Beach and Rapids Water Park in Riviera Beach.
• The Everglades in Palm Beach County hosted scenes in Cape Fear .
• Portions of Body Heat were filmed in Lake Worth and Palm Beach.
• The yacht club scenes in Caddyshack were filmed at the Boca Raton
Resort & Club.
• Scenes from Smokey and the Bandit II were filmed at Burt Reynold’s
ranch in Jupiter. He also starred in the movies as Bandit.
Television / Streaming
• Former Bachelor Tyler Cameron filmed Going Home with Tyler Cameron
in his hometown of Jupiter, featuring well-known attractions such as the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse and local beaches.
• The popular television series B.L. Stryker starring Burt Reynolds was
filmed in parts of Palm Beach County , incorporating local landmarks and familiar
sights.
• Other shows and documentaries include: Full Swing ; Palm Royale; t he Real Housewives of Miami ; Apples Never Fall ; Hot
Yachts Miam i; The Beauty Queen Killer; Basketbal l Wives Orlando ; Top Gear;
Dr. Pimple Popper ; Billion Dollar Buyer ; 90 Day Fiancé; Diners , Drive -Ins and
Dives; Designing Spaces ; The Bachelorette ; House Hunters; Wildlife
Florida Yard; Shark Tank ; I am Jazz; Love & Hip Hop Miami ; Top
Gear , Military Makeover with Montel Williams ; and more.
Our Shopping Districts
See the Official Visitors Guide an d f or a
complete listing of specialty shops and shopping districts in our destination.
V
isitors often want to take something home with them that’s unique to our area . Many
of our cities’ historic downtowns and neighborhood main streets are brimming with
eclectic boutiques, galleries, and gift shops , such as :
• Downtown West Palm Beach is the ideal place for shopping , where shoppers will
find handcrafted wares, high -end fashion, and one-of-a-kind boutiques that fit
any budget. Local favorites include:
o Pioneer Linens , an ic onic store that offers high -
quality, luxury bed linens, bath towels and rugs, as well as various home decorations and accessories.
o Ci
tyPlace , formerly known as The Square , is an
open-air retail district with boutiques, trendy restaurants and pop -up
events.
o An
tique Row , w here shoppers will find
more than 40 antique shops offering pieces from the 17th to the 20th
centuries.
o N orthwood Village /Old Northwood , a n artsy
enclave of shops located just north of downtown West Palm Beach where visitors can find lots of unique items.
CityPlace
Discover The Palm Beaches
shopping boutiques and dining .
• Palm Beach’s Worth Avenue is a lan dmark thoroughfare
studded with high -end designers, posh eater ies, and bougainvillea-draped
walkways leading to picturesque courtyards.
o F
or book lovers, Raptis Rare Books is an Antiquarian Book firm with a
reputation for unique and important books that are in exceptional
condition , including first editions, signed and inscribed books.
o The original Lil ly Pulitzer is located on Worth
Avenue, with other locations in Boca Raton , Delray Beach, and Palm
Beach Gardens. At the Palm Beach location, shoppers can design their
own custom shift dress.
Lilly Pulitzer
Flagship Store
Worth Avenue
i.
3f749046323392f56107fc.jpg
Palm Beach’s Worth Avenue
Discover The Palm Beaches
boutiques and
restaurants .
• D
owntown Boca Raton’s Royal Palm Place ( -
dining/ ) offers a variety of boutiques selling unique fashions, jewelry, and home
goods.
• D owntown Delray Beach’s Atlantic Avenue is a
pedestrian -friendly throughfare lined with boutiques, art galleries , bustling cafes,
cocktail bars, and hotels.
• D owntown Lake Worth Beach’s outdoor shopping includes clothing boutiques,
art galleries, accessories , and more.
• Mizner Park in Boca Raton p rovides a mix of shopping,
dining, and cultural experiences and has significantly contributed to the revitalization of downtown Boca Raton.
• High -end consignment is extremely popular in The Palm Beaches with many
boutiques and shops. Some of the destination’s best include Dina C’s Fab &
Funky Consignment Boutique and Kismet Village in West Palm Beach, The
RealReal in Palm Beach, POSH Consignment by V in Boca Raton, Second Time
Around in Delray Beach, and Man Cave Consignment for Men in Jupiter. The
Church Mouse is one of the top donation - based resale
shops in the country that supports The Church of Bethesda- by-the-Sea. The store
offers men’s and women’s designer clothing, antiques, artwork, furniture, and more. For information about all of these stores and more high -end consignment
in The Palm Beaches, see -sec
ondhand -
fashion-stores- palm -beaches .
Royal Poinciana Plaza
Discover The Palm Beaches
The Palm Beaches have become a haven for food enthusiasts and connoisseurs alike,
attracting the most celebrated, award -winning chefs. See the Official Visitors Guide an d
for a comprehensive listing of our area’s culinary
offerings and the culinary maestros who serve our area.
• O ur food reflects the wide array of cultures that make up our area. And one of
the best things about living in such a diverse community is the variety of
restaurants , including everything from Cuban, Peruvian, and Jamaican to
Mexican, Chinese , and Italian.
• Our area specialties include fried alligator, grouper, mahi mahi , and other
freshly caught seafood and can be found on many of the menus in our
restaurants. Stone crab is another favorite local delicacy served at man y
establishments during stone crab season, which runs October 15 to May 1.
Larger stone crabs are often found in the waters off Palm Beach.
• Diners can choose from down -home style cafés and local brewpubs to upscale
fine dining and everything in between. Some eateries include:
o Ci ty Diner is a diner with a 50’s vibe that serves breakfast, lunch, and
dinner. Discover It: City Diner – 3400 S. Dixie Hwy., West Palm Beach,
FL, 33405, 561- 659-6776,
o Grandview Public Market is an artisanal food hall with street-food-
style creations. Discover It: Grandview Public Market – 1401 Clare
Ave., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 561- 206-2148, grandviewpublic.com
o Visitors craving a taste of Latino culture while in The Palm Beaches should head to Greenacres , where they’ll find Cuban, Puerto Rican,
and South American influences, among others. Enjoy authentic Puerto Rican food at La Cosinita Latina , a restaurant featured on Food
Network’s Diners, Drive -Ins and Dives . Discover It: La Cosinita Latina –
Grandview Public Market
o Stage Kitchen & Bar is a small -plates experience
from James Beard Foundation Award -nominee Chef Pushkar Marathe,
inspired by diverse culinary influences from across the world .
Discover It: Stage Kitchen & Bar – 2000 PGA Blvd., Suite 5502, Palm
Beach Gardens, FL, 33408, 561-408- 3685,
o Enjoy a sweet treat while exploring the shops and attractions in Palm
Beach at Piccolo Gelato is a charming gelateria offering authentic
Italian gelato made with innovative creations and daily crafted flavors. Discover It: Piccolo – 66 Via Mizner, Palm Beach, FL , 33480, 561-655-
8786,
Our Waterfront Dining
See the Official Visitors Guide and -restaurants-
waterfront-dining-south -florida for a comprehensive listing of our area’s culinary
offerings.
• Waterfront dining is prevalent all over the east coast of The Palm Beaches.
Diners can arrive by boat or car at 1000 North and revel in views of the Jupiter
Inlet Lighthouse and Intracoastal Waterway. This is an elegant place to celebrate
special moments while munching on the Palm Beach Tower consisting of an epic display of oysters , shrimp, stone crab claws, and lobster. The menu also features
modern American regional and seafood dishes. Discover It: 1000 North – 1000 N.
US Hwy 1, Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561-57- 1000, 1000north.com
• Benny’s on the Beach offers a quintessential beachfront dining experience on the
Lake Worth Pier for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. The popular spot combines laid -
back charm with delicious cuisine served on the outdoor deck or inside the
1000 North’s
waterfront patio
Blvd., Lake Worth Beach, FL , 33460, 561-582- 9001,
• Deck 84 in Delray Beach is known for its casual yet upscale atmosphere, featuring
fresh seafood, American classics, and craft cocktails. Indoor and outdoor seating
with panoramic views of passing boats and the bustling Delray scene is provided
whether for brunch, lunch, or dinner . Discover It: Deck 84 – 840 E. Atlantic Ave.,
Delray Beach, FL , 33484, 561-665-8484,
• A l Fresco , located at the Palm Beach Par 3 Golf Course, is renowned for its
sophisticated yet relaxed atmosphere, where guests can enjoy classic Italian
cuisine crafted from the freshest ingredients. Discover It: Al Fresco – 2345 S.
Ocean Blvd., Palm Beach, FL , 33480, 561-773- 4130,
• Guanabanas is a vibrant waterfront restaurant known for its laid -back
atmosphere and lush tropical surroundings. Nestled along the Loxahatchee River ,
Guanabanas offers a unique dining experience heaped with fresh seafood and
eclectic dishes inspired by Caribbean and Floridian flavors. Discover It:
Guanabanas – 960 N. Hwy. A1A, Jupiter, FL , 33477, 561-747-8878,
• Frigate’s Waterfront Bar & Grill is a charming dining spot offering stunning views
of the Intracoastal Waterway. Arrive by land or boat for casual dining and hand -
crafted drinks. Discover It: Frigate’s – 400 US Highway 1, North Palm Beach, FL
Our Award- Winning Chefs
In the past few years, Palm Beach Country has attracted award- winning chefs who h ave
garnered national and international acclaim . These chefs include Lindsay Autry ; Cindy
Bearman and Jeremy Bearman ; Daniel Boulud ; Clay Conley ; Jeremy Ford ; and Pushkar
Marathe. Learn more about these culinary maestros at:
-winning-chefs -in-the-palm -beaches
Craft Beer, Wine, & Spirits
There’s no better way to get a taste of The Palm Beaches than through our
craft beer . From Saison’s to sours to bright, refreshing lagers that taste like Florida
sunshine in a bottle, there’s something here to please every palate —beer snobs
included. Throughout the county, close to 20 hyper -local, independently owned and
fiercely creative breweries are taking the craft to the next level. Many of them also
serve hard ciders and wine. For more information on our breweries , see
-breweries .
find it at one of our distilleries in West Palm Beach:
o Steel Tie Spirits Co.
o Revenge Rum
• BREWERIES – A few of our popular breweries include:
o Twisted Trunk Brewing in Palm Beach Gardens serves anything from
strawberry -infused ales to mocha stouts. Discover It: Twisted Trunk
Brewing – 2000 PGA Blvd. #5506, Palm Beach Gardens, FL, 33408, 561-
671-2337, twistedtrunkbrewing.com
o Copperpoint Brewing Company , located in Boynton Beach , rotates
different local gourmet food trucks every week in front of the brewery.
Discover It: Copperpoint Brewing Company – 151 Commerce Rd., Boynton
Beach, FL, 33426, 561- 508-7676, copperpointbrewingcompany.com
o Saltwater is Delray Beach’s first and only microbrewery , located off I -95 on
the West side of the highway. Discover It: Saltwater Brewery – 1701 W.
Atlantic Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33444, 561- 865-5373,
saltwaterbrewery.com
Restaurant Mont h
• Downtown Delray Beach Restaurant Month is held in September and various
downtown Delray Beach restaurants offer prix-fixe menus and BOGO (buy one,
get one) deals for diners to enjoy. Discover It: Downtown Delray Beach
Restaurant Month –
• Flavor South Florida is also celebrated throughout September when Palm Beach
County is transformed into a culinary paradise. Locals and visitors alike can savor
specially crafted prix-fixe menus prepared by South Florida’s top chefs at our
finest restaurants. Discover It: Flavor South Florida –
Culinary Tourism / Agritourism
• Culinary tourism puts visitors behind the scenes during facility tours at local
businesses such as Tropical Acres Farms .
• Guided food tours by West Palm Beach Food Tours expose visitors to the
incredible array of restaurant s, wh ile learning more about neighborhoods,
history , and culture. Learn more at:
• Agricultural tourism, or Agritourism , is one of the fastest growing segments of
the tourism industry.
flowers in the U.S. The farmers here cultivated 14 varieties of gladiola, including
the Red Charm, Phantom Beauty, Snow Princess, Margaret Beaton, Elizabeth the
Queen, and Spotlight. The first Gladioli Festival and Fair was planned in 1947.
In its heyday, the festival attracted locals , as well as Hollywood stars to Atlantic
Avenue.29 Today, this festival is called the Delray Affair and gladiolas are
featured , along with a variety of arts, crafts, and entertainment , along 10 city
blocks. Discover It: Delray Affair – delrayaffair.com
• Another unique product that is currently being produced in The Palm Beaches are plates and containers made from sugarcane residue and fibers. These
disposable containers decompose much more quickly than Styrofoam or plastic
containers, making them much more eco-friendly. They are created by a company named Tellus , located in Belle Glade. For more information, see
.
• Open- air green markets and farmers markets offer a blissful bounty of produce,
and flowers, along with handcrafted goodies and creations from local
vendors. Suggest to visitors that they check out the green markets and farmers
markets in West Palm Beach, Delray Beach, and Palm Beach Gardens . Additional
markets include the Lake Worth Beach Farmers Market , the Swank Farmers
Market in Loxahatchee Groves, and the Lakeside Market at Wellington Town
Center .
• The West Palm Beach GreenMarket started in 1995 and is a three-time
cons ecutive winner of Best Farmers Market in America.
- events/events/the-west-palm -beach -
greenmarket
• Shop with 70+ farmers, bakers, and small batch culinary artists at Delray Beach
GreenMarket , featuring live music, bi-weekly chef showcase and more. Discover
It: Delray Beach GreenMarket – 51 N. Swinton Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33444,
561-276-7511,
• Craft Food Tours in Delray Beach are a great way to experience South Florida’s
food, drink, and culture. Discover It: Craft Food Tours – 103 NW 3rd Ave., Delray
Beach, FL, 33444, 954- 559-8456,
Delray Affair
-
festivals/florida -festival -calendar/
trees. Find a list of local Farmer’s Markets and U -Pick farms at
Our Nightlife
See the Official Visitors Guide and f or the variety of
nightlife and entertainment options in our area. For a schedule of who’s playing
where, check out the entertainment section of The Palm Beach Post at
.
• Nighttime in The Palm Beaches is truly magical, offering a wide variety of bars
and clubs to keep the fun going after sunset.
• Visitors can s tart on Clematis Street in West Palm Beach, where historic buildings
house an array of shops, bars, and clubs.
o E.R. Bradley’s Saloon is a historic and iconic waterfront restaurant that embodies the charm and essence of Florida’s coastal dining. Named after
the legendary local businessman and philanthropist, the relaxed and
inviting restaurant offers old -world charm , as well.
o Clematis Social is an elevated nightlife experience offering an upscale
atmosphere with pool tables and great music. Grab a bite, as well, with a
range of options from gourmet burgers and artisanal pizzas to fresh seafood and innovative small plates.
o Clematis by Night happens every Thursday featuring a wide variety of
music genres and live performances – all for free. Encourage visitors and
locals to chill out South Florida style on the Great Lawn in downtown West Palm Beach . -
events/events/clematis -by-night
• Delray Beach’s Atlantic Avenue , known as “The Ave,” is a pedestrian -friendly
haven with a bustling atmosphere. Here, a plethora of restaurants, coffee shops, Clematis Street
Discover The Palm Beaches
food and drinks, Park Tavern for craft cocktails, and City Oyster & Sushi Bar for
delectable seafood. If visitors are looking for dancing , they can d ance the night
away at Honey or Tin Roof, or have a playful night at Throw Social with games
and cocktails.
• In the north of the county, Jupiter Inlet offers a magical setting with lavish
mansions and stunning views. The Woods is a high -end sports bar, while U-Tiki
Beach serves fresh seafood with breathtaking waterfront views. Guanabanas is
an open -air restaurant and bar with live music, and Square Grouper is a popular
tiki bar with a scenic view of the Jupiter Lighthouse.
• If guests are looking for a fun rooftop atmosphere to enjoy, tell them about Capri
Rooftop Lounge Bar , Spruzzo , The Treehouse, and Bar Capri , offering amazing
views of the waterfront and the City of West Palm Beach . Rosewater Rooftop by
Akira Back in Delray Beach offers food, drinks , and live music steps away from
Atlantic Ave. Topside at The Beacon in Jupiter provides a rooftop bar experience
with tropical decor.
Our Festivals and Unique Events
See the Discover The Palm Beaches Calendar of Events at
f
or a current list of all that’s happening.
Our festivals and events celebrate our diverse cultural heritage, as well as our area ’s
unique history, offering great live entertainment, games, food, and cultur e.
• A few of our other annual festivals and events are:
o Artigras Fine Arts Festival – Palm Beach Gardens
o The Palm Beach Show – West Palm Beach
o Fiesta de Pueblo – Greenacres
o South Florida Fair – West Palm Beach
o Palm Beach Polo Season – Wellington
Rosewater Rooftop by Akira Back
o Delray Beach Open – Delray Beach
o Lake Worth Street Painting Festival – Lake Worth Beach
o Manatee Fest – Riviera Beach
o Wellington Bacon & Bourbon Fest – Wellington
o Spring Training – West Palm Beach & Jupiter
o Cognizant Classic in The Palm Beaches – Palm Beach Gardens
o Festival of the Arts Boca – Boca Raton
o Palm Beach Pride – Lake Worth Beach
o TurtleFest – Juno Beach
o Palm Beach International Boat Show – West Palm Beach
o Barret t-Jackson Auto Auction – West Palm Beach
o Delray Affair – Delray Beach
o Sweet Corn Fiesta – West Palm Beach
o Palm Beach International Jazz Festival – West Palm Beach
o SunF est – West Palm Beach
o The Pink Retreat – The Palm Beaches
o Unity x Black Excellence Festival – West Palm Beach
o Oktoberfest – Lake Worth Beach
o Boynton Beach Haunted Pirate Fest & Mermaid Splash –
Boynton Beach
o Lagoon Fest – West Palm Beach
o Eudemonia – West Palm Beach
o The Garden of Life Palm Beaches Marathon –
West Palm Beach
o Palm Beach Food & Wine Fest ival – Multiple Cities
o Holiday in Paradise – West Palm Beach
o Palm Beach Holiday Boat Parade –
North Palm Beach to Jupiter
Our Visual Arts
See The Palm Beaches Official Visitors Guide
( pl us visit the Cultural Council for
Palm Beach County’s site for a listing of arts
groups, museums, and galleries in our destination.
L
ook around. It isn’t hard to see why The Palm Beaches’ scenic beauty has inspired
generations of artists and collectors . Read on to find the many ways to enjoy our
variety of visual arts.
dynamic changing exhibitions and distinguished permanent collection. The
Museum ’s permanent collection focuses on drawings, paintings, photographs,
sculpture, African Art, studio glass, and ceramics . Changing exhibits are mainly
international in scope, while reflecting the artistic expression of the region and city. The Museum of Art’s public programs include artist presentations, family
activities , and more than 100 classes per week at its studio Art School. Discover
It: Boca Raton Museum of Art – bocamuseum.org (
See the Attractions Section,
Page 174)
• Founded in 1941 by Ralph Hubbard Norton and his wife Elizabeth Calhoun
Norton, the Norton Museum of Art houses a far -ranging collection of art with
distinguished holdings in American, European, and Chinese art, as well as
Photography. The museum was the first art museum opened in the area. Since
2011, the museum has hosted Recognition of Art by Women , an annual series that celebrates the contribution of living female painters and sculptors with solo exhibitions. Discover It: Norton Museum of Art – 1450 S. Dixie Hwy,
West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 561- 832-5196,
• House d in a 1939 Art Deco building known as The Armory building, the Armory
Arts Center features exhibitions, art salons, lectures, and special events. The
center also provides art classes for all ages and abilities and has provided
workshops to the community , taught by national and international visiting
master artists. The center was created when the Norton Museum closed its art school in 1986. Discover I t: Armory Art Center – 811 Park Pl., West Palm Beach,
FL, 33401, 561- 832-1776, armoryart.org
• The Cornell Art Museum is located in the restored 1913 Delray Elementary
School Building on the Old School Square campus. The first floor features two
large galleries for the main exhibits and the Spotlight Gallery for changing month -
long exhibits by local artists. The second floor offers four more galleries. The Norton Museum of Art
Discover The Palm Beaches
contemporary artist s.
• Old School Square is an arts district that includes the Cornell Art Museum, the
Creative Arts School, the Crest Theatre, an event center called The Fieldhouse,
and an outdoor performance facility called The Pavilion. Discover It: Old School
Square – 51 N. Swinton Ave., Delray Beach, FL, 33444, 561- 243-1077,
• The West Palm Beach Arts & Entertainment District is an area of more than 20
inspiring arts and entertainment venues that includes art and history museums, galleries, libraries, performing arts companies , and art education institutions. The
district hosts a variety of artistic events throughout the year, including
FOTOfusion, which showcases photographic excellence in fine art, landscape,
nature, photojournalism, and sports. Another popular event is Harmony , a free
performance along the waterfront at the Meyer Amphitheater that often features the Palm Beach Symphony, Ballet Palm Beach, and the Dreyfoos School of the Arts Dance Department. Discover It: West Palm Beach Arts &
Entertainment District – 300 Clematis Street, Suite 200, West Palm Beach, FL,
33401 , -and-e/about/
• Dotted with murals and sculptures, the Pineapple Grove Arts District is Delray
Beach’s colorful arts district . It features an eclectic mix of unique public art
pieces, boutiques, Artist’s Alley, and fine art galleries , in addition to the Arts
Garage, a performing arts venue. Here’s a tip: The district hosts the First Friday
Art Walk from October through May, which features open studios and artist
meet -and -greets. Discover It: Pineapple Grove Arts District – NE 2
nd Avenue from
NE 1st St. to NE 4th St., Delray Beach, FL, 33444, 561- 243-1077,
• The Delray Beach Art Trail features dozens of murals and art installations. For
more information, see delrayarttrail.com .
• The Benzaitan Center for Creative Arts provides affordable studio rates to
emerging glass and metal artists in The Palm Beaches. They also provide a gallery
West Palm Beach
Arts & Entertainment
District
Discover The Palm Beaches
center’s various events that include demonstrations, art classes, art auctions, and art-focused fundraisers. Discover I t: Benzaitan Center for Creative Art s – 1105
2
nd Ave. S., Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33449, 561- 508-7315,
• Visitors will enjoy world -class photography exhibits at the P alm Beach
Photographic Centre, which has free admission. The museum also hosts an annual FOTOfusion Festival which features photos shoots, workshops, lectures,
portfolio reviews, and hands -on computer labs. Discover It: Palm Beach
Photographic Centre – 415 Clematis St., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 561- 253-
2600,
• The Palm Beaches has begun to build a reputation as one of the nation’s most
dynamic hubs for mural art. Local, national, and international artists have
enriched public spaces, streetscapes, a nd buildings with artwork inspired by The
Palm Beaches’ diverse communities and natural beauty. There are now hundreds of colorful murals on display from Jupiter to Boca Raton. For a map of murals in
West Palm Beach, see -and-e/mural -map/ . For a list of
some of the most popular murals in the area, see
-m urals -palm -beaches .
Our Performing Arts
See the Official Visitors Guide and plus
for a listing of performing arts groups and
venues in our destination.
O
ur area is alive with ballet, opera, symphony orchestras, dance, community theater
and big -name performing acts. Our performing arts venues are home to world -class
performing arts organizations including:
Interconnected mural on the
Cultural Council Building
Discover The Palm Beaches
County. Its season runs from December through April and includes world -class
opera performances at the Kravis Center. Productions feature internationally
renowned artists from around the world , accompanied by the Palm Beach Opera
Orchestra. Discover It: Palm Beach Opera – Kravis Center for the Performing Arts,
701 Okeechobee Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401, 561-833- 7888, pbopera.org
• As Florida’s largest award- winning not -for-profit professional regional theatre,
the Maltz Jupiter Theatre produces year -round entertainment featuring
Broadway -caliber musicals, dramatic works, concerts, family programming , and
classes for all ages at its Goldner Conservatory of Performing Arts. The Theatre
draws 100,000 people annually. Discover It: Maltz Jupiter Theatre – 1001 E.
Indiantown Rd., Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561 -575-2223,
• Ar
ts Garage is a vibrant cultural hub dedicated to showcasing diverse forms of art
and performance. Housed in a versatile, urban -chic space, t his dynamic venue
features an intimate setting and serves as a community cornerstone, offering a
wide range of artistic experiences that include live music, theater, visual arts, and
educational programs. Discover It: Arts Garage – 94 NE 2nd Ave., Delray Beach, FL
33444, 561-450-6357,
• Palm Beach Dramaworks is a professional non -profit theatre company that
performs timeless productions that are well- known to theatregoers , in addition
to promoting new plays through their Dramaworkshop . The theatre also has an
educational arm dedicated to introducing youth and the community to the joy of
theatre. Discover It: Palm Beach Dramaworks – 201 Clematis St., West Palm
Beach, FL, 33401, 561- 514-4042,
Maltz Jupiter Theatre’s
production of
In the Heights
mi/article/BWW -Review -IN-
THE-HEIGHTS -at-Maltz -Jupiter -
Theatre -20190701
• Several of our annual events celebrate the performing arts in The Palm Beaches .
• Festival of the Arts BOCA features several of the world’s most sought -after
classical and contemporary performers, as well as award- winning authors and
speakers, cirque performances, story slams, and film screenings. Discover It:
Festival of the Arts Boca – 590 Plaza Real, Boca Raton, FL, 33432,
festivalboca.org
• The Palm Beach Shakespeare Festival is Palm Beach County’s longest -running
summertime cultural tradition. Performed in Carlin Park’s Seabreeze
Amphitheater, the productions are free to the public . In addition to works by
Shakespeare, the festival often includes other productions including original and contemporary performances. Discover It: Palm Beach Shakespeare Festival –
Carlin Park Seabreeze Amphitheater – 400 Florida A1A, Jupiter, FL, 33477, 561-
762-8552, pbshakespeare.org
• Florida’s largest waterfront music festival, SunF est, is held each May celebrating
art and music in West Palm Beach. The event is packed with headliners and local performances and also includes a variety of food vendors, interactive activities, and floating bars. Food options include everything from Caribbean flavors to
barbecue and ethnic foods. Discover It: SunF est – Downtown West Palm Beach,
Performance Venues
• Some of our major performance venues are:
• The Kravis Center for the Performing Arts contains three venues: the 2,195-
seat Alexander W. Dreyfoos, Jr. Concert Hall, the flexible 289- seat Rinker
Playhouse and the 170 -seat Helen K. Persson Hall. Discover It: Kravis Center
for the Performing Arts – 701 Okeechobee Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33401,
561-651-4444,
Kravis Center for the
Performing Arts
Discover The Palm Beaches
• iTHINK Financial Amphitheatre at the South Florida Fairgrounds hosts
concerts by nationally known bands. The open-air amphitheater can seat
approximately 19,000 people. Discover It: iTHINK Financial Amphitheatre –
South Florida Fairgrounds, 601 -7 Sansburys Way, West Palm Beach, FL, 33411,
561-795-8883,
• The Society of the Four Arts annually offers hundreds of programs, including
live performances, art exhibits, workshops, films, children’s programs, and
more. The 10-acre campus along the Lake Worth Lagoon in Palm Beach
includes a performance hall, an art gallery, a modern education center
devoted to lifelong learning, a library, a children’s library, and beautiful
sculpture gardens. Discover It: Society of the Four Arts – 100 Four Arts Plaza,
Palm Beach, FL, 33480, 561-655-7227, fourarts.org
Natural Assets
Visitors also ask about our climate and natural features. Here’s a snapshot of what
makes our area so wonderful.
Our Climate
• It’s no wonder that Florida is called The Sunshine State . For more than 125 years,
The Palm Beaches have been renowned as the warm -weather getaway by
visitor s.
• The area has a subtropical climate with warm summers and very mild winters.
Humidity throughout the year runs from approximately 66-75%.
• Palm Beach County’s pleasant weather is in part due to its proximity to the Gulf
Stream, which flow s through the Atlantic Ocean. The Gulf Stream is like a warm
river flowing through the ocean and is located only about a mile offshore from
Palm Beach County , near the Lake Worth Inlet . The breezes that accompany the
Gulf Stream warm Palm Beach County in the winter and cool it in the summer,
creating the comfortable temperatures you see below.

Our Geology and Geography
• Palm Beach County is located in the southeastern portion of the state of Florida.
The county is bordered to the north by Martin County, to the east by the Atlantic
Ocean, to the south by Broward County, to the west by Hendry County and the
northwest by Lake Okeechobee.
• The geology of southeastern Florida is different than the geology of central and
western Florida in that the sand layer on top is much deeper . The layer beneath
the sand is limestone that runs through the entire state. Because the sand layer
Section 9 – Our Climate & Natural Assets
it. This means that the area is not prone to sinkholes as are other parts of the
state.
• The northern reaches of t he Everglades , a subtropical freshwater wetland
spanning two million acres across central and southern Florida , are located in
Palm Beach Count y. During the summer, Lake Okeechobee overflows, releasing
water into a very slow -moving, shallow river dominated by sawgrass marsh. The
water flows southward at the rate of a quarter mile per day, passing through
diverse habitats, including cypress swamps, wet prairie, and mangroves until it
reaches Everglades National Park and eventually Florida Bay on the southern tip
of Florida.30 The Everglades are often referred to as a “river of grass .” The
Everglades have shrunk in recent history due to dredging, pumping, and draining
of the sloughs .
• The western part of the county is known for its soil, often called “black gold.”
This black soil comes from the remnants of the Everglades that were once located
here, consisting of decomposed plants that fell underwater in the Everglades thousands of years ago. It is filled with nutrients and is great for growing crops,
which is why agriculture is a popular economic driver in this area.
• Just offshore are 47 miles of natural coral reefs that run parallel to Palm Beach
County’s coastline. These reefs were created thousands of years ago and are part
of a reef that runs 360 miles from the St. Lucie Inlet to the Dry Tortugas, one of
the largest coral reef ecosystems in the continental U.S. In recent years, the
Palm Beach County government has added to the reef, creating artificial reefs
out of limestone, concrete, and occasionally decommissioned ships to provide habitat for coral, algae, and other marine life, as well as more locations for divers
to see marine life. The County’s Environmental Resources Management
depart ment has deployed over 49 vessels, 110,000 tons of concrete, and 140,000
tons of limestone boulders to create these artificial reefs.
31
Boating in the Everglades
-c anoeing -
everglades- palm -beach- county/
• The Atlantic Ocean makes up the entire eastern flank of Palm Beach County. It is
the second-largest ocean in the world stretching from North and South America
on the west to Europe and Africa on the east. All of our beaches are located along
the shore of the Atlantic Ocean.
• Lake Okeechobee is the largest freshwater lake in the state of Florida. Its name
comes from the Seminole language where “oki” means “water” and “chubi”
means “big .” The lake is 730 square miles in area and is shallow, averaging a
depth of nine feet. It supports a diverse habitat and is home to a variety of
mammals and aquatic life. It is known as a great place for fishing and waterfowl
hunting. Boating is popular on the lake, as well as wildlife siting, camping , and
hiking along the 109- mile Lake Okeechobee Scenic Trail .
• Lake Mangonia is a 540- acre inland lake in the heart of West Palm Beach. Boating
and fishing are popular here. The waters of Lake M angonia travel through a canal
into the main body of Clear Lake, located just south of Lake Mangonia.
• Clear Lake is a 401-acre lake. Hiking and fishing are popular activities .
• Lake Osborne is a well- stocked lake with boat launching ramps and fishing piers ,
located at John Prince Memorial Park. Camping is also available.
• Lake Ida is a 190-acre lake located in Delray Beach. Fishing, jet skiing, and
wakeboarding are available on the lake. Several parks are also located along
its shores.
• The Loxahatchee River is a 7.6 -mile river that has three main forks that form
together before emptying into the Atlantic Ocean near Jupiter. The northwest fork of the river is one of only two federally designated Wild and Scenic Rivers in
Florida. Once the three forks join, t he water becomes part freshwater and part
saltwater as it mixes with the incoming tides of the ocean. Lake Okeechobee

Worth Creek, and Jupiter Sounds. Part of the flow of the St. Lucie and Indian
Rivers diverted to the ocean through the Jupiter Inlet , as well. However, in 1892,
the construction of the St. Lucie Inlet made an artificial cut through the barrier
strip about six miles north of the Jupiter Inlet. The altered hydrodynamics
facilitated the need for management of the Jupiter Inlet to reduce shoaling and
maintain a navigable channel. To achieve this, the inlet was moved approximately 1,250 feet north to its present position beginning in 1913. The project entailed
cutting a channel across the sand barrier, building a new barrier across the natural Southeasterly channel to divert the flow through the new opening, and constructing two jetties. The work was completed nine years later in 1922. Work
has continued on the inlet since this time to maintain transportation channels.
• The Intracoastal Waterway is a shipping route in the U.S. that runs for 3,000
miles along the Atlantic coast and the Gulf of Mexico. As mentioned, it facilitates
transportation by avoiding the sometimes- unpredictable open ocean waters.
• The Lake Worth Lagoon is a critical environmental and recreational asset to
Palm Beach County. Its vital estuarine ecosystem stretch es more than 20 miles
from North Palm Beach to Boynton Beach . It plays a crucial role in supporting our
region’s biodiversity, serving as a habitat for various fish, birds, and marine life,
as well as providing an essential breeding and feeding ground with substantive
mangroves, seagrasses, and oyster reefs. The lagoon also provides significant
economic advantages with plenty of activities for residents and tourists alike.
In Case of Emergency
• Hurricane season runs from June 1 through November 30 and visitors are
advised to follow these steps to stay safe during a hurricane32:
o If ordered to evacuate, leave immediately .
o Follow evacuation routes and do not try to take shortcuts as they may be
blocked.
o If possible, take water, food, a flashlight, a radio, a first aid kit, any
medications, cell phones and chargers, extra cash, family and emergency
Jupiter Inlet
blanket.
o Check with local officials for shelter locations. A free Red Cross Emergency
App is available to download on smart phones from Google Play or the App Store.
o Check for m
ore information prior, during, and
after the storm to help support visitors in the destination.
Our Flora and Fauna
• Sea turtles are commonly seen offshore , the most common being Leatherbacks,
Loggerheads, Green, Kemps Ridley, and Hawksbill. Our beaches lead the nation
in the number of sea turtle nests per mile, producing approximately 2 million
hatchlings per year.33
• Manatees and bottlenose dolphins are also often spotted in our waters,
delighting visitors and residents alike.
• American alligators may be spotted in Palm Beach County. They live in
freshwater and brackish environments. When
they are young, alligators eat fish, insects, snails, crustaceans, and worms. As they get larger, they eat larger prey such as large fish, turtles, muskrats, birds, deer, and other reptiles.
34 Encourage visitors to steer clear of alligators.
• The sand dunes i n the eastern portion of Palm Beach County offer a desert -like
climate and host a plant community called the Sand Pine Scrub. This ecosystem is
home to several endangered species that depend on the Sand Pine Scrub for survival. This includes the Florida Scrub -Jay and the Florida Scrub Lizard . The
Florida Dancing Lady Orchid is also found only in this area.
• Tropical hardwood hammocks are found along both coasts of south Florida and
in the Everglades and Florida Keys. A tropical hardwood hammock is a closed -
canopy forest dominated by a variety of evergreen and semi-deciduous trees and
scrubs that is often higher in elevation from the rest of the land. The hammocks in Palm Beach County are made up mainly of tropical flora originating in the
Manatees

winds, and water currents over a long period of time. Today, there are more than
120 species of tropical plants, 36 of which are listed as endangered or
threatened. Examples include Bahama strongbark, buccaneer palm, Florida
boxwood, and milkbark.35
• Palm trees are often associated with Florida. Only 12 palm trees are native to
the state, as follows:
o Buccaneer Palm
o Sabal Palm – Florida’s State Tree
o Dwarf Palmetto
o Everglades Palm
o Needle Palm
o Thatch Palm
o Silver Palm
o Royal Palm
o Saw Palmetto
o Miami Palm
o Scrub Palmetto
o Key Thatch
Our Natural Habitats
• Nature preserves and protected , natural areas provide an excellent opportunity
for visitors to experience our unique habitats and local wildlife. The Palm Beach
County Department of Environmental Resources Management manages 35
natural areas encompassing more than 31,000 acres of environmentally sensitive
lands. The following natural areas have public -use facilities, including a small
parking lot, informational kiosks, and hiking trails: Delray Oaks, Frenchman’s
Forest, High Ridge Scrub, Hypoluxo Scrub, Juno Dunes, Jupiter Ridge, Leon M.
Weekes, Ocean Ridge, Rosemary Scrub, Royal Palm Beach Pines, Seacrest Scrub,
Sweetbay, Snook Islands, and Yamato Scrub. For more information on these
natural areas, see discover. .
• Explore the northern portion of the Everglades at Arthur R. Marshall
Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge . Here visitors can explore the “river of
grass” at eye level through sawgrass marshes. It’s a prime area for birding and
wildlife viewing, as well as hiking, photography, hunting, and fishing. Discover It:
Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge – 10216 Lee Rd.,
Boynton Beach, FL, 33473, 561-734- 8303, loxahatcheefriends.com
• The Wellington Environmental Preserve at the Marjory Stoneman Douglas
Everglades Habitat is a 365- acre rainwater storage area with nature trails and
learning centers. Here, visitors can experience Florida’s natural landscape from the paved pedestrian path and boardwalk that leads to seven designated learning
Sabal Palm Tree
wading birds like great blue herons and roseate spoonbills. Six-story observation
towers are located at two of the learning areas. The preserve also includes a
butterfly garden, and a 3.6-mile Equestrian Trail that is an extension of the
approximately 65- mile Wellington Bridle Trail System. Discover It: Wellington
Environmental Preserve – 3491 Flying Cow Ranch Rd., Wellington, FL, 33414,

• Grassy Waters Nature Preserve is another remnant of the northern Everglades,
boasting wetlands, tree islands, and forested hammocks. Today, the park is a
habitat for deer, wild boar, sandhill cranes , and more. Discover It: Grassy Waters
Nature Preserve – 8264 Northlake Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33412, 561- 804-
4985, -preserve
• In the 1970s, t he City of Boca Raton took special measures to preserve the five
miles of coastline within its city limit s, while dedicating 20 acres to develop a
hands -on interpretive program that would be beneficial to the environment and
local community. This program eventually became Gumbo Limbo Nature Center ,
which has now grown into a top marine life research and rescue destination for
sea turtle s. Outdoor marine aquariums allow visitors to spot many different types
of tropical fish. Each of the four aquariums represents a different Southeast
Florida marine h abitat. The Nature Center also has a Rehabilitation Facility where
visitors can see rescued sea turtle patients. The hope is that the sea turtles can
be returned to the wild. Florida Atlantic University’s Department of Biological Sciences operates a research facility on site. D uring the summer, sea turtle
hatchlings can be view ed in their gallery. Their baby sea turtle releases are also
open to the public. The campus also includes a boardwalk where visitors can view a Tropical Hardwood Hammock ecosystem. Discover It: Gumbo Limbo Nature
Center – 1801 N. Ocean Blvd., Boca Raton, FL, 33432
-Limbo-Nature-Center
• Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse Outstanding Natur al Area , a 120- acre preserve, is
one of three Outstanding Natural Areas in the nation. It was established in 2008 by Congress for the preservation, protection, and enhancement of the
Wellington Environmental
Preserve
y/Details/Wellington -Environmental -
Preserve -Sectio -57
preserving its rich history. The site is home to four sensitive habitats, 26 special-
status species, and an archaeological record that dates back over 5,000 years. It is
also the location of the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse. Discover I t: Jupiter Inlet
Lighthouse Outstanding Natural Area – 600 County Hwy 707, Tequesta, FL,
33469, 561-295-5953, - conservation -
lands/eastern -states/jupiter -inlet -lighthouse
• The Hungryland Slough Natural Area includes a variety of flatwoods, swamp, and
hammock ecosystems, in addition to a wet prairie and a depression marsh.
Several trails are available for hiking, biking, and horseback riding, all of which are less than five miles long. Wildlife viewing is popular here, especially in the
wetlands where many birds are found. Discover It: Hungryland Slough Natural
Area – 12385 Seminole Pratt Whitney Rd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33412,
• J.W. Corbett Wildlife Management Area contains 60,330 acres. The Great Florida
Birding and Wildlife Trail runs through the area, as it is home to diverse wildlife
like bobcats, indigo snakes, red -cockaded woodpeckers, sandhill cranes, and a
variety of wading birds. A network of trails, including a boardwalk , wind through
the cypress wetland mak ing it easier to view wildlife. Discover It: J.W. Corbett
Wildlife Management Area – 11835 Seminole Pratt Whitney Rd., West Palm
Beach, FL, 33412,
• Okeeheelee Nature Center offers 2.5 miles of trails winding through 90 acres of
pine flatwoods and wetlands. Highlights include hands -on exhibits, animal
encounters and a nature- related gift shop. Visitors can m arvel at birds of prey,
touch a live snake, or prowl for owls during one of the center’s many programs
scheduled throughout the year for families, youth , and adults. Discover It:
Okeeheelee Nature Center – 7715 Forest Hill Blvd., West Palm Beach, FL, 33413,
561-233-1400, discover
• Green Cay Nature Center and Wetlands is a premier destination in Boynton
Beach for nature enthusiasts and wildlife observers. Th es 100-acre wetland
Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse
Outstanding Natural
Area
discover.
Areas/Jupiter -Inlet.aspx
of habitats, including marshes, mangroves, and ponds. Visitors can enjoy close- up
views of native flora and fauna, such as alligators, turtles, herons, and other bird
species, making it a haven for birdwatchers and photographers. Additionally, the
nature center offers educational exhibits, live animal displays, and interactive
programs . Discover It: Green Cay Nature Center and Wetlands – 12800 Hagen
Ranch Road, Boynton Beach, FL , 33437, 561-966-7000,
discover.
• Daggerwing Nature Center features include a 3,000 sq. ft. exhibit hall with live
animals and interactive state- of-the-art exhibits, classroom facilities, laboratory,
art gallery, reading area, butterfly garden, and an elevated boardwalk which
takes you on a relaxing journey through a swamp. Discover It: Daggerwing
Nature Center – South County Regional Park, Boca Raton, FL, 33498, 561 -629-
8760, discover.
• Frenchman’s Forest Natural Area includes 158 acres of protect mangrove, live
oak, slash pine, and cypress habitats. A 1.5 -mile trail runs through the natural
area and includes a boardwalk through a cypress swamp. Several other trails are
also available in the natural area. Discover It: Frenchman’s Forest Natural Area –
12201 Prosperity Farms Rd., Palm Beach Gardens, FL, 33410, 561-233-2400,
discover. -Forest.aspx
• Busch Wildlife Sanctuary is a care
facility for injured animals. The organization rescues sick, injured,
or orphaned native Florida wildlife
and releases those back into the wild that are able to return to their native habitat. Those that can’t be
re-released live at the sanctuary,
with many of them on display for
public viewing . Otters, foxes, bears,
birds, and panthers are just some of the animals that can be seen.
Discover It: Busch Wildlife Sanctuary –
(
See the Attractions
Section, Page 174)
• Manatee Lagoon – An F PL Eco-Discovery Center® is a free attraction with a
dedicated viewing area where visitors can see manatees up close. The 16,000-
square-foot facility includes hands-on exhibits where visitors can learn more about these threatened and unique creatures, as well as the Lake Worth Lagoon.
Manatee season runs from November 15 to March 31. There is no guarantee,
however, that visitors will see manatees during this time, as they are not
contained in the area in any way. Discover It: Manatee Lagoon – An FPL Eco-
Busch Wildlife Sanctuary
Discover The Palm Beaches
Page 174)
• Peaceful Waters Sanctuary is a 30- acre wetlands park with 1,500 feet of elevated
nature boardwalks and one mile of walking trails. The park features an
assortment of displays that represent the variety of animals and plant species native to South Florida. It provides an excellent opportunity for nature photography. Discover It: Peaceful Waters Sanctuary – 11676 Pierson Rd.,
Wellington, FL, 33414, 561-791-4005, -Waters -Sanctuary -56
• Wakodahatchee Wetlands are located on 50 acres, which were previously wastewater utility property. Today, the site features a three-quarter mile
boardwalk that connects open water pond areas and islands. It is part of the
Great Florida Birding Trail and is home to more than 178 species of birds, along
with turtles, rabbits, fish, frogs, and raccoons. Discover It: Wakodahatchee
Wetlands – 13026 Jog Rd., Delray Beach, FL, 33446, 561-493-6000,
discover.
Wakodahatchee Wetlands
Discover the Palm Beaches
From hiking, biking , and fishing to golf, watersports, tennis , and croquet , there’s no
shortage of activities in our destination . The following are just some of the possibilities .
And, for that occasional rainy day, we have indoor activities too.
Our City and County Parks
• P alm Beach County’s Parks and Recreation Department operates 110 parks and
recreation facilities , including two water parks. These facilities cover more than
8,000 acres of land for residents and visitors to explore. Discover It: Palm Beach
County’s Parks and Recreation Department – 2700 6th Avenue South, Lake
Worth, FL , 33461, 561- 966-6600,
• The eastern edge of Jaycee Park consists of a mangrove nature preserve with a
boardwalk feature that overlooks the Intracoastal Waterway where manatees have been known to frequent. Amenities are offered, including bocce courts,
picnic pavilions, a fitness trail, a playground, and a nature preserve. The park also
offers i ntracoastal Waterway access for canoes, kayaks , and paddle boards.
Leashed dogs are allowed. Discover It: Jaycee Park – 2600 S. Federal Highway,
Boynton Beach, FL, 33435, 561-737- 3256,
projects/completed-projects/jaycee -park
• Scott's Place Barrier -Free Playground was made possible by a generous donation
from Wellington residents , Del and Barbara Williamso n, in honor of their son ,
Scott, who passed away at age six . The playground is designed to meet the needs
of both able-bodied and disabled children. Discover It: Scott’s Place Barrier-Free
Playground – 12300 W. Forest Hill Blvd., Wellington, FL, 33414, 561- 791-4000,
- Place -BarrierFree-
Playground-23
Section 10 – Our Outdoor and Indoor Life
Scott’s Place Barrier -Free
Playground
ctory/listing/scotts -place#
150-person seating area, restroom facilities, boat ramp with four launching pads,
boat trailer parking, horseshoe pits, fishing pier , and a one -mile 12-station Heart
Trail. Discover It: Bryant Park – Lake Avenue and Golfview on the Intracoastal
Waterway, Lake Worth Beach, FL, 33460, 561- 533-7363,
-park
• The Burt Aaronson South County Regional Park is the home of the previously
mentioned Daggerwing Nature Center, as well as the Osprey Point Golf Course,
the Sunset Cove Amphitheater, and the Coconut Cove Waterpark. 